---
title: weather 2024.16
updated: 2024-04-15 09:53:28
---

# weather 2024.16

(date: 2024-04-15 09:53:28)

---

## SPC Apr 15, 2024 1630 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2024-04-15, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1130 AM CDT Mon Apr 15 2024

Valid 151630Z - 161200Z

...THERE IS AN ENHANCED RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE CENTRAL GREAT PLAINS AND CENTRAL AND EASTERN VIRGINIA...

...SUMMARY...
Scattered severe thunderstorms are likely across parts of the Great
Plains, beginning mainly this evening and continuing overnight.
Several tornadoes, large to very large hail, and damaging wind gusts
all appear possible.  Strong tornadoes may occur this evening across
parts of Kansas and Nebraska.  Scattered severe gusts are probable
this afternoon into the evening across portions of Virginia.

...Synopsis...
Water-vapor imagery this morning shows a large, closed upper cyclone
over UT with this feature ejecting over the southern/central Plains
tonight.  A strong mid/upper-level jet will overspread much of the
southern/central Plains while a cyclone deepens over the High Plains
today.  Southerly low-level flow will facilitate moisture return
northward concurrent with a warm front advancing northward across
the central Great Plains.  A dryline is forecast to mix eastward
across the southern/central High Plains through peak afternoon
heating, before retreating westward this evening across parts of the
TX/OK Panhandles and western KS.

...Northern/Central Plains (Kansas/Nebraska/South Dakota)...
No appreciable change in thinking from the previous forecast in the
overall severe scenario for later today/tonight.  Capping will
likely inhibit storm initiation over the northern/central Plains
through at least late afternoon.  However, strong southerly
low-level flow will advect increasingly rich moisture northward with
upper 50s to low 60s surface dewpoints by early this evening across
the warm sector.  Prior to storm initiation, 2000-3000 J/kg MLCAPE
is forecast concurrent with strengthening mid/upper-level flow.  

Once convective initiation occurs (early evening), rapid supercell
development is expected as a LLJ intensifies.  Large to very large
hail (around 2-3 inches in diameter) will be a threat with any
supercells that can form along/near the warm front, or southward
along the length of the dryline into western KS.  Enlarged
hodographs during the evening will occur through midnight while some
additional increase in low-level moisture acts to counter increasing
CINH due to cooling surface temperatures.  If a few discrete
supercells can maintain a feed of effective near-surface inflow
parcels, the tornado risk will likely become focused with those
storms.  Given the strength of shear/buoyancy combination, strong
tornadoes appear possible this evening/tonight across portions of
KS/NE.  As additional storms develop, an evolving cluster growing
upscale will potentially yield severe gusts, most likely from
north-central KS into central NE overnight.  

...Southern Plains (Oklahoma/Texas)...
A lower coverage of storms is expected to develop farther south
along the dryline over parts of the southern Great Plains late this
afternoon into tonight.  Ample mid to high-level clouds will tend to
limit daytime heating to some extent along the length of the
dryline.  However, model guidance shows sufficient agreement in
depicting storm development across parts of northwest TX by late
this afternoon.  Supercells appear likely with this activity given
strong (50-60 kt) deep-layer shear and large buoyancy.  Isolated
large to very large hail will probably be the main threat with this
convection as it moves towards north-central TX. But, occasional
severe/damaging winds and perhaps a couple of tornadoes may also
occur through the early evening.  Most guidance indicates any
supercells which develop will weaken with eastward extent as they
encounter increasing MLCIN, and become increasingly displaced from
the better large-scale ascent with the upper trough/low ejecting
over the central Plains.  A highly conditional severe threat remains
apparent across OK late this afternoon and evening, with a favorable
parameter space to support supercells capable of producing all
severe hazards.  But, much of OK may have a relative minimum in
convective activity until late tonight as a Pacific cold front
overtakes the dryline.

...Lower OH Valley into the Mid-Atlantic states...
Morning surface mesoanalysis places a residual frontal zone draped
over central IN/OH with a low-level moisture reservoir (low 60s deg
F surface dewpoints) extending from the confluence of the MS/OH
rivers northeastward into the lower Wabash Valley.  Atop this
moisture, a plume of steep 700-500 mb lapse rates (8.0 to 8.3 deg
C/km) sampled at the Lincoln, IL and Wilmington, OH raob sites, will
overspread the OH Valley eastward into VA today.  The richer
low-level moisture will likely remain west of the Appalachians
across the lower OH Valley where 1500-2500 J/kg MLCAPE is forecast. 
Widely scattered thunderstorms are forecast to develop by mid
afternoon within the moist axis along/south of a stalled front over
the OH Valley.  Effective shear 25-35 kt will support a mix of
supercells and organized line segments capable of hail and wind.  

Farther east, steep lapse rates from the surface to 500 mb are
depicted in forecast soundings by early to mid afternoon (8 deg
C/km).  Although PW will be lower across the Mid-Atlantic region, a
more deeply mixed boundary layer is forecast with strong westerly
mid-level flow (40 kt).  Initial cellular storms will likely develop
over the higher terrain with subsequent development across northern
VA.  A band of storms posing a risk for severe gusts (60-70 mph) and
resultant wind damage is forecast.  Given the lapse rate profile
coupled with ample mid- to high-level flow and a linear mode, have
increased wind probabilities and an upgrade to level 3 categorical
outlook this update.  The overall severe threat should gradually
diminish through late evening with the loss of diurnal heating.

..Smith/Bentley.. 04/15/2024

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_1630.html>

---

## SPC - No watches are valid as of Mon Apr 15 16:35:01 UTC 2024

date: 2024-04-15, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

No watches are valid as of Mon Apr 15 16:35:01 UTC 2024. 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/>

---

## SPC - No MDs are in effect as of Mon Apr 15 16:35:01 UTC 2024

date: 2024-04-15, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

No Mesoscale Discussions are in effect as of Mon Apr 15 16:35:01 UTC 2024. 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/>

---

## SPC Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook

date: 2024-04-15, from: NOAA Weather Forecasts

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/day1fireotlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1131 AM CDT Mon Apr 15 2024

Valid 151700Z - 161200Z

...CRITICAL FIRE WEATHER AREA FOR CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN HIGH
PLAINS...

Morning observed soundings within the High Plains region showed
shallow moisture along with a shallow temperature inversion. This
should allow surface temperatures to rapidly rise into the afternoon
along with moisture mixing out quite efficiently. Widespread
critical fire weather is expected today. Extremely critical
conditions appear probable at least on a localized basis.

Within the Missouri Valley, morning surface observations already
show ongoing elevated to borderline critical conditions, which is
ahead of even the drier/windier deterministic model solutions. Given
pockets of receptive fuels, particularly with southwestern extent,
several hours of elevated to locally critical conditions are
possible. RH should eventually increase from southwest to northeast
as the warm front lifts northward with time.

..Wendt.. 04/15/2024

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 0202 AM CDT Mon Apr 15 2024/

...Synopsis...
An upper low and strong jet streak are forecast to intensify and
eject eastward over the Great Plains today and tonight. A lee low
should rapidly deepen over central High Plains with surface pressure
falls and the strong flow aloft bolstering strong surface winds over
much of the Plains. Hot and dry surface conditions atop drying fuels
will allow for widespread critical and localized extremely critical
fire-weather conditions.

...Southern and central High Plains...
As the main upper low phases with the subtropical jet, 70+ kt
mid-level flow will shift eastward and cross the Rockies late in the
afternoon and evening. The rapidly deepening lee low will force
strong west/southwest flow downslope over the High Plains behind a
dryline forecast to mix near 100 degrees west. Sustained surface
winds of 25-40 mph are possible behind the dryline given the strong
pressure falls and enhanced momentum transfer from increasing flow
aloft. Minimum RH values are also expected to be critically low,
falling to 10-15% over much of the High Plains. Widespread dry and
receptive fuels, combined with strong wind gusts and very dry
surface conditions, will support ubiquitous high-end critical
fire-weather concerns from eastern CO and western KS, into parts of
the Panhandles, and eastern NM/west TX. 

Localized extremely critical conditions also appear possible as
strong winds continue to increase into the late afternoon and
evening hours. The most likely corridors for localized extreme
conditions will exist from southeastern CO into parts of western KS
and the northwestern Panhandles, and across parts of the southwest
TX. Here, the overlap of the strongest flow aloft and single digit
RH is possible for a few hours late in the afternoon. Uncertainty on
the duration of extreme conditions remains too large to introduce
any Extremely Critical areas. Considerable uncertainty also exists
on the positioning of the dryline and the amount of mid and
high-level cloud cover. Will maintain a broader Elevated area to
capture the potential for more brief fire-weather conditions should
the dryline mix farther east.

...Missouri Valley...
Locally elevated fire weather conditions are possible in parts of
northwestern Iowa into southeast South Dakota this afternoon. Dry
air ahead of the warm front and gusty winds will increase prior to
precipitation arriving during the evening/overnight. With these
dry/windy conditions occurring primarily over marginally dry fuels
and over a limited duration, the threat is likely to remain
localized.

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov/fire for graphic product...

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html">Read more</a>
 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html>

---

## SPC Apr 15, 2024 1300 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2024-04-15, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0745 AM CDT Mon Apr 15 2024

Valid 151300Z - 161200Z

...THERE IS AN ENHANCED RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE CENTRAL PLAINS...

...THERE IS A SLIGHT RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE SOUTHERN MID-ATLANTIC...

...SUMMARY...
Scattered severe thunderstorms are likely across parts of the Great
Plains, beginning mainly this evening and continuing overnight.
Several tornadoes, large to very large hail, and damaging wind gusts
all appear possible. Strong tornadoes may occur this evening across
parts of Kansas and Nebraska.

...Synopsis...
A large, closed upper cyclone is present over the Great Basin this
morning. This feature will track eastward across the central
Rockies, eventually ejecting over the southern/central Plains
tonight. A strong mid/upper-level jet attendant to this upper
cyclone will overspread much of the southern/central Plains through
this evening. Pronounced large-scale ascent preceding the
upper-level trough/low will encourage additional deepening of a
surface low over the central High Plains though the day. Moisture
will continue streaming northward through the period in tandem with
a warm front and persistent low-level warm/moist advection. This
warm front should be located across NE and perhaps into far southern
SD by late this evening, as the primary surface low consolidates
over the NE Panhandle. A dryline is forecast to mix eastward across
the southern/central High Plains through peak afternoon heating,
before retreating westward this evening across parts of the TX/OK
Panhandles and western KS.

...Northern/Central Plains (Kansas/Nebraska/South Dakota)...
A cap and the late timing of large-scale ascent associated with the
ejecting upper cyclone will likely inhibit convective development
across the northern/central Plains through at least late afternoon.
Still, low-level moisture will gradually increase through the day,
with surface dewpoints of at least upper 50s to low 60s becoming
common by early this evening across the warm sector. Steep mid-level
lapse rates and cooling thermal profiles aloft are expected to
contribute to substantial MLCAPE by the peak of the diurnal heating
cycle, with values likely ranging around 2000-3000 J/kg. With
gradually strengthening mid/upper-level flow anticipated, deep-layer
shear should also become sufficiently strong to support a mix of
supercells and multicells across this region.

Convective initiation should be delayed across much of KS/NE/SD
until around 00Z as a southerly low-level jet rapidly strengthens to
50-60 kt. Very large hail (around 2-3 inches in diameter) will be a
threat with any supercells that can form along/near the warm front,
or southward along the length of the dryline into western KS.
Low-level hodographs are forecast to become enlarged/curved in the
00-06Z time frame tonight, and the threat for tornadoes is likewise
expected to increase with any supercells that can persist and remain
at least semi-discrete. Confidence has increased in a more
concentrated corridor of tornado potential across parts of
western/central KS into central NE, where supercells appear most
likely in very favorable thermodynamic and kinematic parameter
space. Given the forecast strength of the low-level shear, strong
tornadoes appear possible this evening/tonight across this area.
Severe/damaging winds will also be possible as convection attempts
to grow upscale into one or more clusters overnight. Even with
nocturnal cooling, these severe/damaging winds may persist given the
ample reservoir of buoyancy available.

...Southern Plains (Oklahoma/Texas)...
The overall coverage and severity of convection across the southern
Plains is somewhat more uncertain compared to locations farther
north across the central Plains. This uncertainty is largely tied to
the influence of a sub-tropical mid/upper-level jet that will move
over the southern Plains through the period, along with associated
mid/upper-level cloudiness. These clouds may tend to limit daytime
heating to some extent along the length of the dryline. Even so,
attempts at robust convective development will probably occur across
parts of northwest TX by late this afternoon. If this activity can
be sustained, then supercells appear likely given ample (50-60 kt)
deep-layer shear. Isolated large to very large hail will probably be
the main threat with this convection as it moves towards
north-central TX. But, occasional severe/damaging winds and perhaps
a couple of tornadoes may also occur through the early evening. Most
guidance indicates any supercells which develop will weaken with
eastward extent as they encounter increasing MLCIN, and become
increasingly displaced from the better large-scale ascent with the
upper trough/low ejecting over the central Plains. A highly
conditional severe threat remains apparent across OK late this
afternoon and evening, with a favorable parameter space to support
supercells capable of producing all severe hazards. But, much of OK
may have a relative minimum in convective activity until late
tonight as a Pacific cold front overtakes the dryline.

...Mid-Atlantic to the Mid Mississippi Valley...
The glancing influence and modest ascent with an upper trough across
the Northeast and eastern Canada will overspread parts of the
Mid-Atlantic by early afternoon. Weak low-level convergence along a
sagging cold front should be sufficient to support isolated to
scattered thunderstorm development through the afternoon and evening
from parts of the mid MS Valley into the OH Valley, central
Appalachians, and southern Mid-Atlantic. Ahead of the front across
the Mid-Atlantic, generally low 50s surface dewpoints and steepened
mid-level lapse rates will foster around 1000-1500 J/kg of MLCAPE
with moderately enhanced westerly mid/upper-level flow. Deep-layer
shear across this region appears strong enough to support supercells
with an associated threat for large hail. Damaging wind gusts may
also occur with multicell clusters that attempt to form as they
track generally east-southeastward through the evening hours. With
weaker deep-layer shear across the mid MS and OH Valleys, convection
should be somewhat less organized while still posing an isolated
threat for hail/wind. The overall severe threat should gradually
diminish through late evening with the loss of diurnal heating.

..Gleason/Grams.. 04/15/2024

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_1300.html>

