---
title: News gathered 2025-01-10
updated: 2025-01-10 07:10:23
---

# News gathered 2025-01-10

(date: 2025-01-10 07:10:23)

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-10, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Trump To Be Sentenced In New York Hush Money Case. 

<br> 

<https://talkingpointsmemo.com/live-blog/trump-to-be-sentenced-in-ny-hush-money-case>

---

## Goodbye WinterCG, welcome WinterTC

date: 2025-01-10, updated: 2025-01-10, from: Deno blog

WinterCG, the Web Interoperable Runtimes Community Group is moving to ECMA as TC55 to be able to publish standards.
 

<br> 

<https://deno.com/blog/wintertc>

---

## Prophecies of the Flood

date: 2025-01-10, from: One Useful Thing

What to make of the statements of the AI labs? 

<br> 

<https://www.oneusefulthing.org/p/prophecies-of-the-flood>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-10, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Scroll to the end of this review of the updated Tesla Model Y for the reason no matter how good it is as a car, until they get a real CEO, forget about it. 

<br> 

<https://electrek.co/2025/01/09/this-is-the-refreshed-model-y-just-unveiled-in-china/>

---

## My AI/LLM predictions for the next 1, 3 and 6 years, for Oxide and Friends

date: 2025-01-10, updated: 2025-01-10, from: Simon Willison’s Weblog

<p>The <a href="https://oxide-and-friends.transistor.fm/">Oxide and Friends</a> podcast has an annual tradition of asking guests to share their predictions for the next 1, 3 and 6 years. Here's <a href="https://github.com/oxidecomputer/oxide-and-friends/blob/master/2022_01_03.md">2022</a>, <a href="https://github.com/oxidecomputer/oxide-and-friends/blob/master/2023_01_09.md">2023</a> and <a href="https://github.com/oxidecomputer/oxide-and-friends/blob/master/2024_01_08.md">2024</a>. This year they invited me to participate. I've never been brave enough to share <em>any</em> public predictions before, so this was a great opportunity to get outside my comfort zone!</p>
<p>We recorded the episode live using Discord on Monday. It's now available <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pk6VokHpGY">on YouTube</a>, and should be out <a href="https://oxide-and-friends.transistor.fm/">in podcast form</a> shortly.</p>

<p><lite-youtube videoid="-pk6VokHpGY"
  title="Oxide and Friends 1/6/2025 -- Predictions 2025"
  playlabel="Play: Oxide and Friends 1/6/2025 -- Predictions 2025"
> </lite-youtube></p>

<p>Here are my predictions, written up here in a little more detail than the stream of consciousness I shared on the podcast.</p>
<p>I should emphasize that I find the very idea of trying to predict AI/LLMs over a multi-year period to be completely absurd! I can't predict what's going to happen a week from now, six years is a different universe.</p>
<p>With that disclaimer out of the way, here's an expanded version of what I said.</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#one-year-agents-fail-to-happen-again">One year: Agents fail to happen, again</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#one-year-code-research-assistants">One year: ... except for code and research assistants</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#three-years-someone-wins-a-pulitzer-for-ai-assisted-investigative-reporting">Three years: Someone wins a Pulitzer for AI-assisted investigative reporting</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#three-years-part-two-privacy-laws-with-teeth">Three years part two: privacy laws with teeth</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#six-years-utopian-amazing-art">Six years utopian: amazing art</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#six-years-dystopian-agi-asi-causes-mass-civil-unrest">Six years dystopian: AGI/ASI causes mass civil unrest</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#my-total-lack-of-conviction">My total lack of conviction</a></li>
</ul>
<h4 id="one-year-agents-fail-to-happen-again">One year: Agents fail to happen, again</h4>
<p>I wrote about how <a href="https://simonwillison.net/2024/Dec/31/llms-in-2024/#-agents-still-haven-t-really-happened-yet">“Agents” still haven’t really happened yet</a> in my review of Large Language Model developments  in 2024.</p>
<p>I think we are going to see a <em>lot</em> more froth about agents in 2025, but I expect the results will be a great disappointment to most of the people who are excited about this term. I expect a lot of money will be lost chasing after several different poorly defined dreams that share that name.</p>
<p>What are agents anyway? Ask a dozen people and you'll get a dozen slightly different answers - I collected and <a href="https://gist.github.com/simonw/beaa5f90133b30724c5cc1c4008d0654">then AI-summarized a bunch of those here</a>.</p>
<p>For the sake of argument, let's pick a definition that I can predict won't come to fruition: the idea of an AI assistant that can go out into the world and semi-autonomously act on your behalf. I think of this as the <strong>travel agent</strong> definition of agents, because for some reason everyone always jumps straight to flight and hotel booking and itinerary planning when they describe this particular dream.</p>
<p>Having the current generation of LLMs make material decisions on your behalf - like what to spend money on - is a <em>really bad idea</em>. They're too unreliable, but more importantly they are too <strong>gullible</strong>.</p>
<p>If you're going to arm your AI assistant with a credit card and set it loose on the world, you need to be confident that it's not going to hit "buy" on the first website that claims to offer the best bargains!</p>
<p>I'm confident that reliability is the reason we haven't seen LLM-powered agents that have taken off yet, despite the idea attracting a huge amount of buzz since right after ChatGPT first came out.</p>
<p>I would be very surprised if any of the models released over the next twelve months had enough of a reliability improvement to make this work. Solving gullibility is an astonishingly difficult problem.</p>
<p>(I had <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pk6VokHpGY&amp;t=1206s">a particularly spicy rant</a> about how stupid the idea of sending a "digital twin" to a meeting on your behalf is.)</p>
<h4 id="one-year-code-research-assistants">One year: ... except for code and research assistants</h4>
<p>There are two categories of "agent" that I do believe in, because they're proven to work already.</p>
<p>The first is <strong>coding assistants</strong> - where an LLM writes, executes and then refines computer code in a loop.</p>
<p>I first saw this pattern demonstrated by OpenAI with their <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/code-interpreter/">Code Interpreter</a> feature for ChatGPT, released back in March/April of 2023.</p>
<p>You can ask ChatGPT to solve a problem that can use Python code and it will write that Python, execute it in a secure sandbox (I think it's Kubernetes) and then use the output - or any error messages - to determine if the goal has been achieved.</p>
<p>It's a beautiful pattern that worked great with early 2023 models (I believe it first shipped using original GPT-4), and continues to work today.</p>
<p>Claude added their own version in October (<a href="https://simonwillison.net/2024/Oct/24/claude-analysis-tool/">Claude analysis</a>, using JavaScript that runs in the browser), Mistral have it, Gemini has a version and there are dozens of other implementations of the same pattern.</p>
<p>The second category of agents that I believe in is <strong>research assistants</strong> - where an LLM can run multiple searches, gather information and aggregate that into an answer to a question or write a report.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.perplexity.ai/">Perplexity</a> and <a href="https://openai.com/index/introducing-chatgpt-search/">ChatGPT Search</a> have both been operating in this space for a while, but by far the most impressive implementation I've seen is Google Gemini's <a href="https://blog.google/products/gemini/google-gemini-deep-research/">Deep Research</a> tool, which I've had access to for a few weeks.</p>
<p>With Deep Research I can pose a question like this one:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Pillar Point Harbor is one of the largest communal brown pelican roosts on the west coast of North America.</p>
<p>find others</p>
</blockquote>
<p>And Gemini will draft a plan, consult dozens of different websites via Google Search and then assemble a report (with all-important citations) describing what it found.</p>
<p>Here's the plan it came up with:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Pillar Point Harbor is one of the largest communal brown pelican roosts on the west coast of North America. Find other large communal brown pelican roosts on the west coast of North America.<br />
(1) Find a list of brown pelican roosts on the west coast of North America.<br />
(2) Find research papers or articles about brown pelican roosts and their size.<br />
(3) Find information from birdwatching organizations or government agencies about brown pelican roosts.<br />
(4) Compare the size of the roosts found in (3) to the size of the Pillar Point Harbor roost.<br />
(5) Find any news articles or recent reports about brown pelican roosts and their populations.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>It dug up a whole bunch of details, but the one I cared most about was <a href="https://birdallianceoregon.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Brown-Pelican-survey_4-year_summary-infographic_2016-19_final.pdf">these PDF results for the 2016-2019 Pacific Brown Pelican Survey</a> conducted by the West Coast Audubon network and partners - a PDF that included this delightful list:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Top 10 Megaroosts (sites that traditionally host &gt;500 pelicans) with average fall count numbers:</p>
<ul>
<li>Alameda Breakwater, CA (3,183)</li>
<li>Pillar Point Harbor, CA (1,481)</li>
<li>East Sand Island, OR (1,121)</li>
<li>Ano Nuevo State Park, CA (1,068)</li>
<li>Salinas River mouth, CA (762)</li>
<li>Bolinas Lagoon, CA (755)</li>
<li>Morro Rock, CA (725)</li>
<li>Moss landing, CA (570)</li>
<li>Crescent City Harbor, CA (514)</li>
<li>Bird Rock Tomales, CA (514)</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
<p>My local harbor is the second biggest megaroost!</p>
<p>It makes intuitive sense to me that this kind of research assistant can be built on our current generation of LLMs. They're competent at driving tools, they're capable of coming up with a relatively obvious research plan (look for newspaper articles and research papers) and they can synthesize sensible answers given the right collection of context gathered through search.</p>
<p>Google are particularly well suited to solving this problem: they have the world's largest search index and their Gemini model has a 2 million token context. I expect Deep Research to get a whole lot better, and I expect it to attract plenty of competition.</p>
<h4 id="three-years-someone-wins-a-pulitzer-for-ai-assisted-investigative-reporting">Three years: Someone wins a Pulitzer for AI-assisted investigative reporting</h4>
<p>I went for a bit of a self-serving prediction here: I think within three years someone is going to win a Pulitzer prize for a piece of investigative reporting that was aided by generative AI tools.</p>
<p>I do <em>not</em> mean that an LLM will write the article! I continue to think that having LLMs write on your behalf is one of the least interesting applications of these tools.</p>
<p>I called this prediction self-serving because I want to help make this happen! My <a href="https://datasette.io">Datasette</a> suite of open source tools for data journalism has been growing AI features, like <a href="https://simonwillison.net/2023/Dec/1/datasette-enrichments/">LLM-powered data enrichments</a> and <a href="https://www.datasette.cloud/blog/2024/datasette-extract/">extracting structured data</a> into tables from unstructured text.</p>
<p>My dream is for those tools - or tools like them - to be used for an award winning piece of investigative reporting.</p>
<p>I picked three years for this because I think that's how long it will take for knowledge of how to responsibly and effectively use these tools to become widespread enough for that to happen.</p>
<p>LLMs are not an obvious fit for journalism: journalists look for the truth, and LLMs are notoriously prone to hallucination and making things up. But journalists are also <em>really good</em> at extracting useful information from potentially untrusted sources - that's a lot of what the craft of journalism is about.</p>
<p>The two areas I think LLMs are particularly relevant to journalism are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Structured data extraction. If you have 10,000 PDFs from a successful Freedom of Information Act request, someone or something needs to kick off the process of reading through them to find the stories. LLMs are a fantastic way to take a vast amount of information and start making some element of sense from it. They can act as lead generators, helping identify the places to start looking more closely.</li>
<li>Coding assistance. Writing code to help analyze data is a huge part of modern data journalism - from SQL queries through data cleanup scripts, custom web scrapers or visualizations to help find signal among the noise. Most newspapers don't have a team of programmers on staff: I think within three years we'll have robust enough tools built around this pattern that non-programmer journalists will be able to use them as part of their reporting process.</li>
</ul>
<p>I hope to build some of these tools myself!</p>
<p>So my concrete prediction for three years is that someone wins a Pulitzer with a small amount of assistance from LLMs.</p>
<p>My more general prediction: within three years it won't be surprising at all to see most information professionals use LLMs as part of their daily workflow, in increasingly sophisticated ways. We'll know exactly what patterns work and how best to explain them to people. These skills will become widespread.</p>
<h4 id="three-years-part-two-privacy-laws-with-teeth">Three years part two: privacy laws with teeth</h4>
<p>My other three year prediction concerned privacy legislation.</p>
<p>The levels of (often justified) paranoia around both targeted advertising and what happens to the data people paste into these models is a constantly growing problem.</p>
<p>I wrote recently about the <a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/2/they-spy-on-you-but-not-like-that/">inexterminable conspiracy theory that Apple target ads through spying through your phone's microphone</a>. I've written in the past about <a href="https://simonwillison.net/2023/Dec/14/ai-trust-crisis/">the AI trust crisis</a>, where people refuse to believe that models are not being trained on their inputs no matter how emphatically the companies behind them deny it.</p>
<p>I think the AI industry itself would benefit enormously from legislation that helps clarify what's going on with training on user-submitted data, and the wider tech industry could really do with harder rules around things like data retention and targeted advertising.</p>
<p>I don't expect the next four years of US federal government to be effective at passing legislation, but I expect we'll see privacy legislation with sharper teeth emerging at the state level or internationally. Let's just hope we don't end up with a new generation of cookie-consent banners as a result!</p>
<h4 id="six-years-utopian-amazing-art">Six years utopian: amazing art</h4>
<p>For six years I decided to go with two rival predictions, one optimistic and one pessimistic.</p>
<p>I think six years is long enough that we'll figure out how to harness this stuff to make some <strong>really great art</strong>.</p>
<p>I don't think generative AI for art - images, video and music - deserves nearly the same level of respect as a useful tool as text-based LLMs. Generative art tools are a lot of fun to try out but the lack of fine-grained control over the output greatly limits its utility outside of personal amusement or generating <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/slop/">slop</a>.</p>
<p>More importantly, they lack social acceptability. The vibes aren't good. Many talented artists have loudly rejected the idea of these tools, to the point that the very term "AI" is developing a distasteful connotation in society at large.</p>
<p>Image and video models are also ground zero for the AI training data ethics debate, and for good reason: no artist wants to see a model trained on their work without their permission that then directly competes with them!</p>
<p>I think six years is long enough for this whole thing to shake out - for society to figure out acceptable ways of using these tools to truly elevate human expression. What excites me is the idea of truly talented, visionary creative artists using whatever these tools have evolved into in six years to make meaningful art that could never have been achieved without them.</p>
<p>On the podcast I talked about <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everything_Everywhere_All_at_Once">Everything Everywhere All at Once</a>, a film that deserved every one of its seven Oscars. The core visual effects team on that film was just five people. Imagine what a team like that could do with the generative AI tools we'll have in six years time!</p>
<p id="since-recording">Since recording the podcast I learned from <a href="https://www.swyx.io/">Swyx</a> that Everything Everywhere All at Once <a href="https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/aws/how-ai-tools-are-creating-new-possibilities-for-movies-and-visual-design-according-to-this-aws-powered-startup">used Runway ML as part of their toolset already</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Evan Halleck was on this team, and he used Runway's AI tools to save time and automate tedious aspects of editing. Specifically in the film’s rock scene, he used Runway’s rotoscoping tool to get a quick, clean cut of the rocks as sand and dust were moving around the shot. This translated days of work to a matter of minutes.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>I said I thought a film that had used generative AI tools would win an Oscar within six years. Looks like I was eight years late on that one already!</p>
<h4 id="six-years-dystopian-agi-asi-causes-mass-civil-unrest">Six years dystopian: AGI/ASI causes mass civil unrest</h4>
<p>My pessimistic alternative take for 2031 concerns "AGI" - a term which, like "agents", is constantly being redefined. The Information <a href="https://www.theinformation.com/articles/microsoft-and-openai-wrangle-over-terms-of-their-blockbuster-partnership">recently reported</a> (see also <a href="https://www.theverge.com/2025/1/6/24337106/sam-altman-says-openai-knows-how-to-build-agi-blog-post">The Verge</a>) that Microsoft and OpenAI are now defining AGI as a system capable of generating $100bn in profit!</p>
<p>If we assume AGI is the point at which AI systems are capable of performing almost any job currently reserved for a human being it's hard <em>not</em> to see potentially negative consequences.</p>
<p>Sam Altman may have <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-07-22/ubi-study-backed-by-openai-s-sam-altman-bolsters-support-for-basic-income">experimented with Universal Basic Income</a>, but the USA is a country that can't even figure out universal healthcare! I have huge trouble imagining a future economy that works for the majority of people when the majority of jobs are being done by machines.</p>
<p>So my dystopian prediction for 2031 is that if that form of AGI has come to pass it will be accompanied by extraordinarily bad economic outcomes and mass civil unrest.</p>
<p>My version of an AI utopia is tools that augment existing humans. That's what we've had with LLMs so far, and my ideal is that those tools continue to improve and subsequently humans become able to take on <a href="https://simonwillison.net/2023/Mar/27/ai-enhanced-development/">more ambitious work</a>.</p>
<p>If there's a version of AGI that results in that kind of utopia, I'm all for it.</p>
<h4 id="my-total-lack-of-conviction">My total lack of conviction</h4>
<p>There's a reason I haven't made predictions like this before: my confidence in my ability to predict the future is almost non-existent. At least one of my predictions here <a href="https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#since-recording">already proved to be eight years late</a>!</p>
<p>These predictions are in the public record now (I even <a href="https://github.com/oxidecomputer/oxide-and-friends/pull/158">submitted a pull request</a>).</p>
<p>It's going to be interesting looking back at these in one, three and six years to see how I did.</p>
    
        <p>Tags: <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/data-journalism">data-journalism</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/ai">ai</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/openai">openai</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/generative-ai">generative-ai</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/llms">llms</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/ai-assisted-programming">ai-assisted-programming</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/gemini">gemini</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/code-interpreter">code-interpreter</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/oxide">oxide</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/ai-agents">ai-agents</a></p> 

<br> 

<https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/10/ai-predictions/#atom-everything>

---

## Lenovo ThinkPad X9 is a slim, lightweight laptop that… doesn’t look like a ThinkPad

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The Lenovo ThinkPad X9 14 Aura Edition and Lenovo ThinkPad 15 Aura Edition are laptops with up to a 2.8K OLED 120 Hz touchscreen display, up to an Intel Core Ultra 7 Lunar Lake processor, and compact designs: both models are about 0.7 inches thick and the 15 inch model weighs just 3.2 pounds while the 14 inch [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/lenovo-thinkpad-x9-is-a-slim-lightweight-laptop-that-doesnt-look-like-a-thinkpad/">Lenovo ThinkPad X9 is a slim, lightweight laptop that&#8230; doesn&#8217;t look like a ThinkPad</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/lenovo-thinkpad-x9-is-a-slim-lightweight-laptop-that-doesnt-look-like-a-thinkpad/>

---

## Clink-X xCraft is a mini PC with a modular, customizable design

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>Most desktop PCs are modular by nature: you can remove and replace memory, storage, and even the processor and motherboard. But small desktop PCs often sacrifice some of that versatility in order to take up less space. So while many mini PCs have user-replaceable memory and/or storage, you&#8217;re usually stuck with the other hardware that comes [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/clink-x-xcraft-is-a-mini-pc-with-a-modular-customizable-design/">Clink-X xCraft is a mini PC with a modular, customizable design</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br><video crossorigin="anonymous" controls="controls" width="250">
<source type="video/mp4" src="https://liliputing.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Xcraft_02.mp4"></source>
</video> <a href="https://liliputing.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Xcraft_02.mp4" target="_blank">download video/mp4</a> 

<https://liliputing.com/clink-x-xcraft-is-a-mini-pc-with-a-modular-customizable-design/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

As a regular NYT reader (then) and a huge fan of Donald McNeil&#39;s lifesaving courageous reporting on Covid starting in 2020, when it was raging out of control, the NYT was dead wrong in the way they treated him, and his fans, who never are mentioned anywhere, as if McNeil&#39;s reporting never existed. 

<br> 

<https://donaldgmcneiljr1954.medium.com/my-book-is-out-in-paperback-9705ec01af2e>

---

## Raspberry Pi 5 is now available with 16GB of RAM (for $120)

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The Raspberry Pi 5 is now available with up to 16GB of RAM. That&#8217;s the good news. The less good news is that it&#8217;s priced at $120. That puts the new Raspberry Pi 16GB perilously close to the price of a decent mini PC with an Intel Alder Lake-N or Twin Lake processor. There are [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/raspberry-pi-5-is-now-available-with-16gb-of-ram-for-120/">Raspberry Pi 5 is now available with 16GB of RAM (for $120)</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/raspberry-pi-5-is-now-available-with-16gb-of-ram-for-120/>

---

## Atari GameStation Go handheld console is coming in Q3, 2025 with 200 games built-in

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The Atari GameStation Go is a handheld game console from MyArcade and Atari with a mix of modern and retro features. First previewed last year, the device is on display at CES 2025 this week and MyArcade says it&#8217;ll be available for purchase in the third quarter of 2025 for $150. For that price you get [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/atari-gamestation-go-handheld-console-is-coming-in-q3-2025-with-200-games-built-in/">Atari GameStation Go handheld console is coming in Q3, 2025 with 200 games built-in</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/atari-gamestation-go-handheld-console-is-coming-in-q3-2025-with-200-games-built-in/>

---

## Candy Crush, Tinder, MyFitnessPal: See the Thousands of Apps Hijacked to Spy on Your Location

date: 2025-01-09, from: 404 Media Group

A hack of location data company Gravy Analytics has revealed which apps are—knowingly or not—being used to collect your information behind the scenes. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/candy-crush-tinder-myfitnesspal-see-the-thousands-of-apps-hijacked-to-spy-on-your-location/>

---

## ‘It’s Total Chaos Internally at Meta Right Now’: Employees Protest Zuckerberg’s Anti LGBTQ Changes

date: 2025-01-09, from: 404 Media Group

Meta's decision to specifically allow users to call LGBTQ+ people "mentally ill" has sparked widespread backlash at the company. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/its-total-chaos-internally-at-meta-right-now-employees-protest-zuckerbergs-anti-lgbtq-changes/>

---

## MINISFORUM AI X1 Pro mini PC features Ryzen AI 9 HX 370, OCuLink, and up to 96GB RAM, 12TB storage

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The MINISFORUM AI X1 Pro is a mini PC with the same AMD Ryzen AI 9 HX 370 processor found in the EliteMini AI370 mini PC that MINISFORUM launched a few months ago. But the new model stands out for a few reasons. Instead of two M.2 2280 slots for PCIe 4.0 NVMe storage, it has [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/minisforum-ai-x1-pro-mini-pc-features-ryzen-ai-9-hx-370-oculink-and-up-to-96gb-ram-12tb-storage/">MINISFORUM AI X1 Pro mini PC features Ryzen AI 9 HX 370, OCuLink, and up to 96GB RAM, 12TB storage</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/minisforum-ai-x1-pro-mini-pc-features-ryzen-ai-9-hx-370-oculink-and-up-to-96gb-ram-12tb-storage/>

---

## Daily Deals (1-09-2024)

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>Amazon is giving away BioShock 2 Remastered for free to Prime members and offering another sale on Audible audiobook subscriptions that lets you pay $1 per month for up to three months (and get three audiobooks to keep). Here are some of the day&#8217;s best deals. Smartphones and tablets Google Pixel 7 Pro for $350 [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/daily-deals-1-08-2024/">Daily Deals (1-09-2024)</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/daily-deals-1-08-2024/>

---

## People Think AI Images of Hollywood Sign Burning Are Real

date: 2025-01-09, from: 404 Media Group

AI generated slop is tricking people into thinking an already devastating series of wildfires in Los Angeles are even worse than they are — and using it to score political points.  

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/hollywood-sign-burning-ai-images-la-wildfire/>

---

## ONEXPLAYER G1 handheld gaming PC hits Indiegogo for $899 and up

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The ONEXPLAYER G1 is a mini-laptop with an 8.8 inch, 2560 x 1600 pixel, 144 Hz display and a small RGB backlit keyboard that&#8217;s just large enough for touch typing. But it&#8217;s also a handheld gaming PC &#8211; that keyboard is removable. Lift it away from the computer and you&#8217;ll find a set of built-in game [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/onexplayer-g1-handheld-gaming-pc-hits-indiegogo-for-899-and-up/">ONEXPLAYER G1 handheld gaming PC hits Indiegogo for $899 and up</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/onexplayer-g1-handheld-gaming-pc-hits-indiegogo-for-899-and-up/>

---

## Making Apple S9 and A16 in Arizona

date: 2025-01-09, from: Michael Tsai

Tim Culpan: TSMC Arizona has picked up a second Apple product. In addition to the A16 processor for iPhones, which I shared with you in September, the fab is now producing SiPs (Systems-in-Package) for the Apple Watch, according to my sources. This product is believed to be the S9 SiP (I&#8217;ll be honest, I am [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2025/01/09/making-apple-s9-and-a16-in-arizona/>

---

## Bing Tricking People Into Thinking They’re on Google

date: 2025-01-09, from: Michael Tsai

Tom Warren (tweet, Hacker News): Microsoft is pulling yet another trick to get people to use its Bing search engine. If you use Bing right now without signing into a Microsoft account and search for Google, you&#8217;ll get a page that looks an awful lot like&#8230; Google.It&#8217;s a clear attempt from Microsoft to make Bing [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2025/01/09/bing-tricking-people-into-thinking-theyre-on-google/>

---

## Microsoft Edge Slurps Tabs From Chrome Without Permission

date: 2025-01-09, from: Michael Tsai

Brandon Vigliarolo (via Hacker News): Buried within Edge&#8217;s browser settings on Windows PCs is code that goes well beyond a one-time import of favorites and stored passwords, and has been present in some form as far back as mid-2022 at least. It gives gives Edge the ability to import practically all browser data from Chrome [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2025/01/09/microsoft-edge-slurps-tabs-from-chrome-without-permission/>

---

## Xerox to Acquire Lexmark

date: 2025-01-09, from: Michael Tsai

Lexmark (via Hacker News): Xerox Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ: XRX) today announced it has agreed to acquire Lexmark International, Inc., from Ninestar Corporation, PAG Asia Capital, and Shanghai Shouda Investment Centre in a deal valued at $1.5 billion, inclusive of assumed liabilities. This acquisition will strengthen the Xerox core print portfolio and build a broader global [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2025/01/09/xerox-to-acquire-lexmark/>

---

## Double-keyed Caching: How Browser Cache Partitioning Changed the Web

date: 2025-01-09, updated: 2025-01-09, from: Simon Willison’s Weblog

<p><strong><a href="https://addyosmani.com/blog/double-keyed-caching/">Double-keyed Caching: How Browser Cache Partitioning Changed the Web</a></strong></p>
Addy Osmani provides a clear explanation of how <a href="https://developer.chrome.com/blog/http-cache-partitioning">browser cache partitioning</a> has changed the landscape of web optimization tricks.</p>
<p>Prior to 2020, linking to resources on a shared CDN could provide a performance boost as the user's browser might have already cached that asset from visiting a previous site.</p>
<p>This opened up privacy attacks, where a malicious site could use the presence of cached assets (based on how long they take to load) to reveal details of sites the user had previously visited.</p>
<p>Browsers now maintain a separate cache-per-origin. This has had less of an impact than I expected: Chrome's numbers show just a 3.6% increase in overall cache miss rate and 4% increase in bytes loaded from the network.</p>
<p>The most interesting implication here relates to domain strategy: hosting different aspects of a service on different subdomains now incurs additional cache-related performance costs compared to keeping everything under the same domain.

    <p><small></small>Via <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42630192">Hacker News</a></small></p>


    <p>Tags: <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/addy-osmani">addy-osmani</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/performance">performance</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/browsers">browsers</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/caching">caching</a>, <a href="https://simonwillison.net/tags/web-performance">web-performance</a></p> 

<br> 

<https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jan/9/browser-cache-partitioning/#atom-everything>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Another oldie but goody: Mammas Don&#39;t Let Your Babies Grow up to Be Cowboys. 

<br> 

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i85ob2DackI>

---

## Asus NUC 14 Pro AI+ is a Lunar Lake mini PC with an E Ink top cover and a semi-transparent case

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The Asus NUC 14 Pro AI is a small desktop computer that measures 130 x 130 x 34mm (5.12&#8243; x 5.12&#8243; x 1.34&#8243; and features an Intel Lunar Lake processor with Intel Arc graphics, an Intel AI Boost NPU with up to 48 TOPS of performance for on-device AI processing, and support for up to 32GB of [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/asus-nuc-14-pro-ai-is-a-lunar-lake-mini-pc-with-an-e-ink-top-cover-and-a-semi-transparent-case/">Asus NUC 14 Pro AI+ is a Lunar Lake mini PC with an E Ink top cover and a semi-transparent case</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/asus-nuc-14-pro-ai-is-a-lunar-lake-mini-pc-with-an-e-ink-top-cover-and-a-semi-transparent-case/>

---

## Pilet hits Kickstarter for $200 and up: Portable modular computer powered by a Raspberry Pi 5

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>The Pilet 5 is a Raspberry Pi 5-powered handheld computer with a 5 inch display, a built-in keyboard, and a set of buttons, joysticks, and scroll wheels for navigation and gaming. And the Pilet 7 is a portable computer with a larger display and a modular design: you can attach a keyboard, gamepad, or other [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/pilet-hits-kickstarter-for-200-and-up-portable-modular-computer-powered-by-a-raspberry-pi-5/">Pilet hits Kickstarter for $200 and up: Portable modular computer powered by a Raspberry Pi 5</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/pilet-hits-kickstarter-for-200-and-up-portable-modular-computer-powered-by-a-raspberry-pi-5/>

---

## Exploring Hogwarts Puzzle

date: 2025-01-09, from: Chris Coyier blog

Over the holiday&#8217;s our family did the Exploring Hogwarts puzzle. It was just 500 pieces but took us like&#8230; a month? Of course, in the end, there was a missing piece that we absolutely could not find, confirming our conspiracy theories the entire time. It don&#8217;t know if that looks hard to you, but my [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://chriscoyier.net/2025/01/09/exploring-hogwarts-puzzle/>

---

## AGI isn’t coming in 2025 — and GPT-5 may well not emerge this year, either.

date: 2025-01-09, from: Gary Marcus blog

Much was quietly revealed yesterday 

<br> 

<https://garymarcus.substack.com/p/agi-isnt-coming-in-2025-and-gpt-5>

---

## ‘We’re Fine’: Lying to Ourselves About a Climate Disaster

date: 2025-01-09, from: 404 Media Group

The dystopia of Los Angeles' fires are horrifying, mundane, and everything in between. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/were-fine-los-angeles-wildfires/>

---

## MINISFORUM N5 Pro is a 5-bay NAS with AMD Strix Point, up to 96GB RAM, 10 GbE LAN, and OCuLink

date: 2025-01-09, from: Liliputing

<p>Mini PC maker MINISFORUM is branching out into the network-attached storage space. The upcoming MINISFORUM N5 Pro is a NAS with support for up to five hard drives plus three PCIe NVMe SSDs. But what really makes it stand out are some of the computer&#8217;s other features like an AMD Ryzen AI 9 HX PRO 370 Strix Point [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/minisforum-n5-pro-is-a-5-bay-nas-with-amd-strix-point-up-to-96gb-ram-10-gbe-lan-and-oculink/">MINISFORUM N5 Pro is a 5-bay NAS with AMD Strix Point, up to 96GB RAM, 10 GbE LAN, and OCuLink</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/minisforum-n5-pro-is-a-5-bay-nas-with-amd-strix-point-up-to-96gb-ram-10-gbe-lan-and-oculink/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Google donates $1M to Trump&#39;s inauguration. It&#39;s a new tax. A tariff. Royalties. 

<br> 

<https://www.techmeme.com/250109/p18#a250109p18>

---

## Artificial Intelligence, Authorship, and the Public Interest

date: 2025-01-09, from: Authors Union blogs

Today, we’re pleased to announce a new project generously supported by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. The project, “Artificial Intelligence, Authorship, and the Public Interest,” aims to identify, clarify, and offer answers to some of the most challenging copyright questions posed by artificial intelligence (AI) and explain how this new technology can [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://www.authorsalliance.org/2025/01/09/artificial-intelligence-authorship-and-the-public-interest/>

---

## Google's AI Overview Tells Adults to Use 'Magic Wand' With Kids

date: 2025-01-09, from: 404 Media Group

Google's AI search feature is telling people searching for answers about using vibrating sex toys during pregnancy that they should consider it for counseling children, instead. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/google-ai-overview-search-magic-wand/>

---

## Betrayed by the Failure of Others

date: 2025-01-09, updated: 2025-01-09, from: One Foot Tsunami

 

<br> 

<https://onefoottsunami.com/2025/01/09/betrayed-by-the-failure-of-others/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Dear president Biden: We have a right to see what led to Trump&#39;s indictments. Do it for Jimmy Carter. Do it for American democracy. Release the special counsel reports, now, before it&#39;s too late. 

<br> 

<http://scripting.com/2025/01/09/140817.html?title=dearPresidentBiden>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Today&#39;s song: Cold, Cold, Cold. 

<br> 

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H29UNZCYQbg>

---

## The Seven-Action Documentation model

date: 2025-01-09, from: Blog by Fabrizio Ferri-Benedetti

<p>I think all technical writers, at some point or another, feel the urge to base their work on something more systematic than “it’s just the way folks documented stuff since forever”. Toolkits and frameworks provide content types, which is immensely valuable when you <em>know</em> what you want to write, but <em>starting</em> from there is like buying a hammer without knowing that half of the work you’ll do is turning screws. As I find the lack of deeper conversation around this topic rather unsettling, I decided to contribute some verses.</p> 

<br> 

<https://passo.uno/seven-action-model/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Elon Musk’s rage-fests on X make it clear that he wants to be an entertainer. 

<br> 

<https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/jan/09/elon-musk-x-billionaire-david-brent-mars>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

How Trump’s Greenland Plan Could Hit Ozempic, Legos and Hearing Aids. 

<br> 

<https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/08/us/politics/trump-greenland-denmark-ozempic.html?unlocked_article_code=1.n04.HFO3.hbGCFljH6CzB&smid=url-share>

---

## 16GB Raspberry Pi 5 on sale now at $120

date: 2025-01-09, from: Raspberry Pi News (.com)

<p>Announcing the 16GB Raspberry Pi 5 for applications requiring extra capacity, available at $120. Plus Raspberry Pi Carbon Removal Credits.</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/16gb-raspberry-pi-5-on-sale-now-at-120/">16GB Raspberry Pi 5 on sale now at $120</a> appeared first on <a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com">Raspberry Pi</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/16gb-raspberry-pi-5-on-sale-now-at-120/>

---

## Mark Zuckerberg's commitment to free speech is as deep as Exxon's commitment to clean energy

date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Karpf's blog

Meta's policy commitments never last longer than an election cycle 

<br> 

<https://davekarpf.substack.com/p/mark-zuckerbergs-commitment-to-free>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2025-01-09, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Fire hydrants ran dry in Pacific Palisades as a major wildfire raged. 

<br> 

<https://www.npr.org/2025/01/08/g-s1-41690/california-wildfire-water-hydrants-pacific-palisades>

