---
title: News gathered 2024-10-17
updated: 2024-10-17 17:28:02
---

# News gathered 2024-10-17

(date: 2024-10-17 17:28:02)

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

subscriptionListCleanup: A Node app that reads an OPML subscription list, and loops over all the feeds and only passes through the ones that are reachable and parseable. A nice utility to have around. 

<br> 

<https://github.com/scripting/reallysimple/tree/main/demos/subscriptionListCleanup>

---

## How to install Windows 11 on supported and unsupported PCs, 24H2 edition

date: 2024-10-17, from: OS News

We&#8217;ve pulled together all kinds of resources to create a comprehensive guide to installing and upgrading to Windows 11. This includes advice and some step-by-step instructions for turning on officially required features like your TPM and Secure Boot, as well as official and unofficial ways to skirt the system-requirement checks on &#8220;unsupported&#8221; PCs, because Microsoft is not your parent and therefore cannot tell you what to do. There are some changes in the 24H2 update that will keep you from running it on every ancient system that could run Windows 10, and there are new hardware requirements for some of the operating system&#8217;s new generative AI features. We&#8217;ve updated our guide with everything you need to know. ↫ Andrew Cunningham at Ars Technica In the before time, the things you needed to do to make Windows somewhat usable mostly came down to installing applications replicating features other operating systems had been enjoying for decades, but as time went on and Windows 10 came out, users now also had to deal with disabling a ton of telemetry, deleting preinstalled adware, dodge the various dark patterns around Edge, and more. You have wonder if it was all worth it, but alas, Windows 10 at least looked like Windows, if you squinted. With Windows 11, Microsoft really ramped up the steps users have to take to make it usable. There&#8217;s all of the above, but now you also have to deal with an ever-increasing number of ads, even more upsells and Edge dark patterns, even more data gathering, and the various hacks you have to employ to install it on perfectly fine and capable hardware. With Windows 10&#8217;s support ending next year, a lot of users are in a rough spot, since they can&#8217;t install Windows 11 without resorting to hacks, and they can&#8217;t keep using Windows 10 if they want to keep getting updates. And here comes 24H2, which makes it all even worse. Not only have various avenues to make Windows 11 installable on capable hardware been closed, it also piles on a whole bunch of &#8220;AI&#8221; garbage, and accompanying upsells and dark patterns, Windows users are going to have to deal with. Who doesn&#8217;t want Copilot regurgitating nonsense in their operating system&#8217;s search tool, or have Paint strongly suggest it will &#8220;improve&#8221; your quick doodle to illustrate something to a friend with that unique AI Style™ we all love and enjoy so much? Stay strong out there, Windows folks. Maybe it&#8217;ll get better. We&#8217;re rooting for you. 

<br> 

<https://www.osnews.com/story/140932/how-to-install-windows-11-on-supported-and-unsupported-pcs-24h2-edition/>

---

## Lilbits: Ploopy TrackPad is here, Intel Core 3 N350 is coming soon, and Winamp deletes its GitHub

date: 2024-10-17, from: Liliputing

<p>Ploopy has been designing open source trackballs for the past five years, giving potential customers a choice between building their own or buying one that comes fully (or partially) assembled. Now the company has released a Ploopy TrackPad. It&#8217;s available for purchase as a DIY kit for $100 Canadian (about $73 USD), or as a [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/lilbits-ploopy-trackpad-is-here-intel-core-3-n350-is-coming-soon-and-winamp-deletes-its-github/">Lilbits: Ploopy TrackPad is here, Intel Core 3 N350 is coming soon, and Winamp deletes its GitHub</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/lilbits-ploopy-trackpad-is-here-intel-core-3-n350-is-coming-soon-and-winamp-deletes-its-github/>

---

## The costs of the i386 to x86-64 upgrade

date: 2024-10-17, from: OS News

If you read my previous article on DOS memory models, you may have dismissed everything I wrote as “legacy cruft from the 1990s that nobody cares about any longer”. After all, computers have evolved from sporting 8-bit processors to 64-bit processors and, on the way, the amount of memory that these computers can leverage has grown orders of magnitude: the 8086, a 16-bit machine with a 20-bit address space, could only use 1MB of memory while today’s 64-bit machines can theoretically access 16EB. All of this growth has been in service of ever-growing programs. But… even if programs are now more sophisticated than they were before, do they all&#160;really&#160;require access to a 64-bit address space? Has the growth from 8 to 64 bits been a net positive in performance terms? Let’s try to answer those questions to find some very surprising answers. But first, some theory. ↫ Julio Merino It&#8217;s not quite weekend yet, but I&#8217;m still calling this some light reading for the weekend. 

<br> 

<https://www.osnews.com/story/140930/the-costs-of-the-i386-to-x86-64-upgrade/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Trump v. Washington. 

<br> 

<https://www.wnyc.org/story/trump-v-washington/>

---

## Yuzuki Avaota-A1 is a $55 single-board PC with 8 ARM Cortex-A55 CPU cores and an embedded RISC-V core

date: 2024-10-17, from: Liliputing

<p>The Yuzuki Avaota-A1 is a single-board PC that stands out for a few reasons. One is that it&#8217;s based on an entirely open source design &#8211; the board is now available for purchase for $55, but it was first introduced earlier this year, and you can find schematics and documentation at the Avaota website. Another unusual [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/yuzuki-avaota-a1-is-a-55-single-board-pc-with-8-arm-cortex-a55-cpu-cores-and-an-embedded-risc-v-core/">Yuzuki Avaota-A1 is a $55 single-board PC with 8 ARM Cortex-A55 CPU cores and an embedded RISC-V core</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/yuzuki-avaota-a1-is-a-55-single-board-pc-with-8-arm-cortex-a55-cpu-cores-and-an-embedded-risc-v-core/>

---

## ToothFairy 2.8.5

date: 2024-10-17, from: Michael Tsai

ToothFairy 2.8.5 is a maintenance update of my Bluetooth menu bar utility. It fixes a bug where sometimes ToothFairy wouldn&#8217;t auto-launch at login. An interesting bug was: ToothFairy uses SMLoginItemSetEnabled(), which, instead of launching the app directly, launches a helper app that can launch the main app. Originally, it did this using NSWorkspace.launchApplication(_:), but then [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/17/toothfairy-2-8-5/>

---

## Kindle Colorsoft and 2024 Updates

date: 2024-10-17, from: Michael Tsai

Amazon (Hacker News, MacRumors): The all-new Kindle Colorsoft brings color to Kindle without compromise. It has everything customers love about Kindle today&#8212;high contrast, fast page turns, an auto-adjusting front light, and weeks of battery life. It adds color that is vibrant yet easy on the eyes. Now, you can browse covers in color in your [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/17/kindle-colorsoft-and-2024-updates/>

---

## Digital River Not Paying Developers

date: 2024-10-17, from: Michael Tsai

Thomas Claburn (Hacker News): Digital River has not paid numerous merchants since midsummer for software and digital products they sold through its MyCommerce platform.[&#8230;]&#8220;Astonishingly, Digital River continued to take sales from our loyal customers until we removed them from the order system. It now appears they have no intention of making payments and may be [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/17/digital-river-not-paying-developers/>

---

## Qualcomm discontinues Snapdragon Dev Kit mini PC, promises to refund orders

date: 2024-10-17, from: Liliputing

<p>The Snapdragon Dev Kit for Windows is a mini PC with a Qualcomm Snapdragon X Elite (X1E-001DE) processor that went up for pre-order this summer for $899. Now, just a few months later, Qualcomm has pulled the plug on the little computer. According to Jeff Geerling and xda-developers, customers who ordered one from Arrow Electronics are [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/qualcomm-discontinues-snapdragon-dev-kit-mini-pc-promises-to-refund-orders/">Qualcomm discontinues Snapdragon Dev Kit mini PC, promises to refund orders</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/qualcomm-discontinues-snapdragon-dev-kit-mini-pc-promises-to-refund-orders/>

---

## Android 15’s security and privacy features are the update’s highlight

date: 2024-10-17, from: OS News

Android 15 started rolling out to Pixel devices Tuesday and will arrive, through various third-party efforts, on other Android devices at some point. There is always a bunch of little changes to discover in an Android release, whether by reading, poking around, or letting your phone show you 25 new things after it restarts. In Android 15, some of the most notable involve making your device less appealing to snoops and thieves and more secure against the kids to whom you hand your phone to keep them quiet at dinner. There are also smart fixes for screen sharing, OTP codes, and cellular hacking prevention, but details about them are spread across Google&#8217;s own docs and blogs and various news site&#8217;s reports. ↫ Kevin Purdy at Ars Technica It&#8217;s a welcome collection of changes and features to better align Android&#8217; theft and personal privacy protection with how thieves steal phones in this day and age. I&#8217;m not sure I understand all of them, though &#8211; the Private Space, where you can drop applications to lock them behind an additional pin code, confuses me, since everyone can see it&#8217;s there. I assumed Private Space would also give people in vulnerable positions &#8211; victims of abuse, journalists, dissidents, etc. &#8211; the option to truly hide parts of their life to protect their safety, but it doesn&#8217;t seem to work that way. Android 15 will also use &#8220;AI&#8221; to recognise when a device is yanked out of your hands and lock it instantly, which is a great use case for &#8220;AI&#8221; that actually benefits people. Of course, it will be even more useful once thieves are aware this feature exists, so that they won&#8217;t even try to steal your phone in the first place, but since this is Android, it&#8217;ll be a while before Android 15 makes its way to enough users for it to matter. 

<br> 

<https://www.osnews.com/story/140921/android-15s-security-and-privacy-features-are-the-updates-highlight/>

---

## Employees Describe an Environment of Paranoia and Fear Inside Automattic Over WordPress Chaos

date: 2024-10-17, from: 404 Media Group

Automattic CEO Matt Mullenweg made another buyout offer this week, and threatened employees who speak to the press with termination.  

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/automattic-buyout-offer-wordpress-matt-mullenweg/>

---

## GMKtec EVO-X1 HX370 is an AMD Strix Point mini PC with OCuLink support

date: 2024-10-17, from: Liliputing

<p>Chinese mini PC maker GMKtec has begun showing off its first model powered by an AMD Strix Point processor. The upcoming GMKtec EVO-X1 HX370 is a small desktop PC with an AMD Ryzen AI 9 HX 370 processor, LPDDR5x-7500 memory, and support for external graphics cards thanks to an OCuLink port with support for data [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/gmktec-evo-x1-hx370-is-an-amd-strix-point-mini-pc-with-oculink-support/">GMKtec EVO-X1 HX370 is an AMD Strix Point mini PC with OCuLink support</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/gmktec-evo-x1-hx370-is-an-amd-strix-point-mini-pc-with-oculink-support/>

---

## Fuel Your Future: Massive Grants for Recycling, Transit, and Water Systems

date: 2024-10-17, from: Infrastructure LA Blog

Impacting Home and Travel   Fuel your future with these game-changing federal grants!  Unlock big funding opportunities with the EPA’s latest grants and supercharge your community's recycling and sustainability efforts. The Solid Waste Infrastructure for Recycling (SWIFR) program offers $78 million across two categories: $58 million for States and Territories, and $20 million  [...] 

<br> 

<https://infrastructurela.org/infrastructure-environment-mobility-intel27/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=infrastructure-environment-mobility-intel27>

---

## Volla Phone Quintus is a smartphone that’s also part of a distributed cloud, supports Android or Ubuntu Touch

date: 2024-10-17, from: Liliputing

<p>German device maker Volla has been shipping smartphones and tablets that run a custom version of Android called Volla OS for a few years. And up until now one of the main reasons I&#8217;ve paid attention to his relatively small company is because they&#8217;ve also supported installing Ubuntu Touch as an alternate operating system sine [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/volla-phone-quintus-is-a-smartphone-thats-also-part-of-a-distributed-cloud-supports-android-or-ubuntu-touch/">Volla Phone Quintus is a smartphone that&#8217;s also part of a distributed cloud, supports Android or Ubuntu Touch</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/volla-phone-quintus-is-a-smartphone-thats-also-part-of-a-distributed-cloud-supports-android-or-ubuntu-touch/>

---

## When it comes to security, LLMs are like Swiss cheese — and that’s going to cause huge problems

date: 2024-10-17, from: Gary Marcus blog

Two new examples that are quite disconcerting 

<br> 

<https://garymarcus.substack.com/p/when-it-comes-to-security-llms-are>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

2003: What makes a weblog a weblog? 

<br> 

<https://archive.blogs.harvard.edu/whatmakesaweblogaweblog/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Bloggers, here&#39;s an idea. When you write a piece you&#39;re proud of, end it with a sentence like this: &quot;And that&#39;s why I have a blog.&quot; It plants a seed, which through repetition and appearing in many places, might help people appreciate the purpose of a blog. We&#39;ve had a lot of mud slung at us, let&#39;s start undoing it. 

<br> 

<http://scripting.com/2024/10/17.html#a145140>

---

## How Serendipitous

date: 2024-10-17, updated: 2024-10-17, from: One Foot Tsunami

 

<br> 

<https://onefoottsunami.com/2024/10/17/how-serendipitous/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

The organization that safeguards the internet’s history is under attack. 

<br> 

<https://www.cjr.org/the_media_today/internet-archive-attack-offline-history-library-wayback-machine-ddos.php>

---

## Sisi Wei Recognized as a Freedom of the Press Rising Star in 2024 RCFP Awards

date: 2024-10-17, from: The Markup blog

The awards honor the accomplishments of news and legal leaders whose work embodies the values of the First Amendment 

<br> 

<https://themarkup.org/inside-the-markup/2024/10/17/sisi-wei-rcfp-rising-star-2024>

---

## More Signs, Worse Signal

date: 2024-10-17, from: Tedium site

A presidential get-out-the-vote campaign learns the hard way that rural areas have pretty terrible internet access. 

<br> 

<https://feed.tedium.co/link/15204/16856839/trump-campaign-app-internet-consumption>

---

## Seattle Xcoders 20th Anniversary Meetup

date: 2024-10-17, from: Innessential (Brint Simmons' blog)

<p>This Thursday, Oct. 17, 2024, is the 20th anniversary of the Seattle Xcoders! We’d love to see you there, at 7 pm at <a href="https://www.bbycballard.com/">Bale Breaker and Yonder Cider taproom</a> in Ballard.</p>

<p>Everyone is welcome! It’s not just for people who write code — it’s for designers, testers, support folks, and everyone who helps make Apple-ecosystem apps. Even if you just <em>like</em> those kinds of apps and like talking about them, come join us!</p>

<p>We’re usually outside by these propane fire things, but I’m not sure this time — we might have a room or some area or something. We should be easy to find, at any rate.</p>

<p>It’s not actually a meeting with presentations — it’s just hanging out and talking. Which we do every first, third, and fifth Thursday (you can <a href="webcal://p25-caldav.icloud.com/published/2/Nzc2ODExNzg3NzY4MTE3OA8zb_qUej-fZsXG-_oJak3bJvjP8RcHmIEZ0WxGu2kWkvciKC5Sm6Xm5sHZRUHdZPM3KQg8-b2iwsMIEOTWlJo">subscribe to our calendar</a>). One of these days we’ll get back to presentations — but the social part is valuable, and so we keep it up.</p>

<p>PS Looks like the food truck is Impeckable Chicken, which I’ve heard good things about. :)</p>

<p>PPS I’m usually easy to spot: quite well into middle age, with nothing like the amount of hair I once had. Black jeans, usually a black sweatshirt. Glasses. Doc Martens. Not tall.</p> 

<br> 

<https://inessential.com/2024/10/16/seattle_xcoders_20th_anniversary_meetup.html>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Kamala Harris Arrived for a Fox Interview. She Got a Debate. 

<br> 

<https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/16/business/media/kamala-harris-bret-baier-fox.html>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-17, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Love to have Cory’s support. RSS is patient. Only 22 years since it took off. It’s always ready to “deshitify” the corporate Silicon Valley disneyfied web. 

<br> 

<https://pluralistic.net/2024/10/16/keep-it-really-simple-stupid/>

---

## SSH Into Any Private Host With Inlets Cloud

date: 2024-10-17, updated: 2024-10-17, from: Inlets.dev, cloud tunneling

When you’re away from home it’s not only convenient, but often necessary to connect back to your machines. This could be to connect to a remote VSCode instance, run a backup, check on a process, or to debug a problem. SSH can also be used to port-forward services, or to copy files with scp or rsync. 

<br> 

<https://inlets.dev/blog/2024/10/17/ssh-with-inlets-cloud.html>

---

## Centering a div in a div in 2020

date: 2024-10-17, from: Lean Rada's blog


<p>tl;dr: use <code>place-content: center</code> on a <code>grid</code> container.</p>

<pre><code><span>.container</span> <span>{</span>
  <span>display</span><span>:</span> grid<span>;</span>
  <span>place-content</span><span>:</span> center<span>;</span>
<span>}</span></code></pre>

<p>Here’s how that looks like:</p>
div child
<p>That’s it. Two CSS rules.</p>

<p>Yes, four years late according to <em>caniuse</em>. But this is apparently still not well-known today.</p>

<p>Based on <a target="_blank" href="https://build-your-own.org/blog/20240813_css_vertical_center/">recent developments<span>🡵</span></a>, looks like we just need a few more years
              before we can finally get rid of the extra <code>display</code> rule so we can have the one CSS rule to center them all.
            </p>
 

<br> 

<https://leanrada.com/notes/how-to-center-in-css?ref=rss>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Reed Hastings, Powder Mountain will limit skiing to passholders in February 2024. 

<br> 

<https://www.sltrib.com/news/environment/2024/10/15/reed-hastings-powder-mountain/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Harbin Hot Springs has new domes that look really cool. 

<br> 

<https://harbin.org/reservations/accommodations-rates/#the-domes>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Jimmy Carter, at age 100, casts his 2024 ballot by mail. 

<br> 

<https://apnews.com/article/jimmy-carter-vote-cast-president-1f868b295111d0b7f2d6acfd087c9166>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

A Node package that reads RSS, Atom and RDF feeds and calls back with a simple, consistent JavaScript object. Open source. Written by Dave Winer (me). 

<br> 

<https://github.com/scripting/reallysimple>

---

## Microsoft Surface Laptop and Surface Pro tablet with Intel Lunar Lake could launch in 2025

date: 2024-10-16, from: Liliputing

<p>The Microsoft Surface Laptop 7 that launched earlier this year is available with a choice of 13.8 inch or 15 inch displays and comes with up to 64GB of RAM and 1TB of storage. But so far it&#8217;s only available with Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus or Snapdragon X Elite processors. And the Surface Pro 11 [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/microsoft-surface-laptop-and-surface-pro-tablet-with-intel-lunar-lake-could-launch-in-2025/">Microsoft Surface Laptop and Surface Pro tablet with Intel Lunar Lake could launch in 2025</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/microsoft-surface-laptop-and-surface-pro-tablet-with-intel-lunar-lake-could-launch-in-2025/>

---

## AI PCs aren’t very good at AI

date: 2024-10-16, from: Peter Warden

I&#8217;ve long been a fan of Qualcomm&#8217;s NPUs, and I even collaborated with them to get experimental support for the underlying HVX DSP into TensorFlow back in 2017 (traces remain here). That meant I was very excited when I heard they were bringing those same accelerators to Windows tablets, offering up to 45 trillion ops [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://petewarden.com/2024/10/16/ai-pcs-arent-very-good-at-ai/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Cory Doctorow: RSS basically works like social media should work. Indeed. 

<br> 

<https://pluralistic.net/2024/10/16/keep-it-really-simple-stupid/#read-receipts-are-you-kidding-me-seriously-fuck-that-noise>

---

## Why I Lugged My 27-Pound Toddler to a Rocket Launch

date: 2024-10-16, from: Wait but why blog

<p>So heavy but so worth it</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://waitbutwhy.com/2024/10/spacex-toddler.html">Why I Lugged My 27-Pound Toddler to a Rocket Launch</a> appeared first on <a href="https://waitbutwhy.com">Wait But Why</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://waitbutwhy.com/2024/10/spacex-toddler.html>

---

## Work around a MariaDB behaviour change

date: 2024-10-16, from: Ocelot SQL GUI blog

CREATE PROCEDURE p() BEGIN DECLARE v CHAR CHARACTER SET utf8 DEFAULT ''; SELECT * FROM information_schema.routines WHERE routine_name &#62; v; END; CALL p(); Result: with current MariaDB 11.4 or MySQL 8.3: a result set.Result: with new or future MariaDB: an error message mentioning collations. The error appears with MariaDB 11.5.1 and later, except for Debian-based&#8230; <a class="continue" href="https://ocelot.ca/blog/blog/2024/10/16/work-around-a-mariadb-behaviour-change/">Continue Reading Work around a MariaDB behaviour change</a> 

<br> 

<https://ocelot.ca/blog/blog/2024/10/16/work-around-a-mariadb-behaviour-change/>

---

## Lenovo ThinkPad X1 2-in-1 Gen 10 Aura Edition is a 14 inch Lunar Lake convertible with up to a 2.8K, 120 Hz OLED display

date: 2024-10-16, from: Liliputing

<p>Lenovo&#8217;s upcoming ThinkPad X1 2-in-1 Gen 10 Aura Edition is a convertible notebook with a list of specs almost impressive enough to justify that mouthful of a name. It sports a 14 inch screen with support for up to a 2.8K OLED 120 Hz touchscreen display panel, an Intel Core Ultra 200V series processor based on [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/lenovo-thinkpad-x1-2-in-1-gen-10-aura-edition-is-a-14-inch-lunar-lake-convertible-with-up-to-a-2-8k-120-hz-oled-display/">Lenovo ThinkPad X1 2-in-1 Gen 10 Aura Edition is a 14 inch Lunar Lake convertible with up to a 2.8K, 120 Hz OLED display</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/lenovo-thinkpad-x1-2-in-1-gen-10-aura-edition-is-a-14-inch-lunar-lake-convertible-with-up-to-a-2-8k-120-hz-oled-display/>

---

## T/Maker: Tiny Software Company Takes on the Giants (Interview)

date: 2024-10-16, from: Computer ads from the Past

An interesting look at a company with less than 20 employees playing with the big boys 

<br> 

<https://computeradsfromthepast.substack.com/p/tmaker-tiny-software-company-takes>

---

## Returning to Core Data

date: 2024-10-16, from: Michael Tsai

Fatbobman: However, the release of iOS 18 cast a shadow over this beautiful vision. A year after its first appearance, SwiftData underwent a major underlying refactoring. Although this adjustment was aimed at shifting from a strong coupling with Core Data to supporting more flexible multi-persistence solutions&#8212;a direction undoubtedly correct&#8212;it seems that the significant changes led [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/16/returning-to-core-data/>

---

## Traveling With Apple Vision Pro

date: 2024-10-16, from: Michael Tsai

Azad Balabanian (via Federico Viticci): The Vision Pro has quickly become an essential item that I take onto every flight. It&#8217;s a fantastic device to travel with&#8212;Be it by train or by plane, it offers an unparalleled opportunity to selectively tune out your environment and sink into an engaging activity like watching a movie or [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/16/traveling-with-apple-vision-pro/>

---

## Passkeys Credential Exchange

date: 2024-10-16, from: Michael Tsai

Filipe Esp&#243;sito (Hacker News, MacRumors, Dan Moren): As just announced by the FIDO Alliance, the new specifications aim to promote user choice by offering a way to import and export passkeys. The draft of the new specifications establishes the Credential Exchange Protocol (CXP) and Credential Exchange Format (CXF) formats for transferring not only passkeys, but [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/16/passkeys-credential-exchange/>

---

## Disk Images in Sequoia

date: 2024-10-16, from: Michael Tsai

Howard Oakley: When you create the disk image, macOS creates and attaches its container, and creates and mounts the file system within that. This is then saved to disk as a regular file occupying the full size of the disk image, plus the overhead incurred by the disk image container itself. No sparse files are [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://mjtsai.com/blog/2024/10/16/disk-images-in-sequoia/>

---

## Tinkerers Are Taking Old Redbox Kiosks Home and Reverse Engineering Them

date: 2024-10-16, from: 404 Media Group

The Redbox operating system has been dumped, and people are repurposing the massive DVD kiosks they've saved from the scrap heap. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/tinkerers-are-taking-old-redbox-kiosks-home-and-reverse-engineering-them/>

---

## The new Kindle Paperwhite has 7 inch display and faster page turns

date: 2024-10-16, from: Liliputing

<p>Amazon&#8217;s 12th-gen Kindle Paperwhite is an eBook reader with a 7 inch touchscreen display featuring a front light with support for brightness and color temperature adjustments. As expected, it&#8217;s basically a modest updated to the model that Amazon&#8217;s been selling since 2011. The key differences are a slightly larger display, slightly longer battery life, and [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/the-new-kindle-paperwhite-has-7-inch-display-and-faster-page-turns/">The new Kindle Paperwhite has 7 inch display and faster page turns</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/the-new-kindle-paperwhite-has-7-inch-display-and-faster-page-turns/>

---

## Huawei’s Android-free ‘HarmonyOS NEXT’ will go live next week

date: 2024-10-16, from: OS News

Earlier this year we talked about Huawei&#8217;s HarmonyOS NEXT, which is most likely the only serious competitor to Android and iOS in the world. HarmonyOS started out as a mere Android skin, but over time Huawei invested heavily into the platform to expand it into a full-blown, custom operating system with a custom programming language, and it seems the company is finally ready to take the plunge and release HarmonyOS NEXT into the wild. It’s indicated that HarmonyOS made up 17% of China’s smartphone market in Q1 of 2024. That’s a significant amount of potential devices breaking off from Android in a market dominated by either it or iOS. HarmonyOS NEXT is set to begin rolling out to Huawei devices next week. The OS will first come to the Mate 60, Mate X5, and MatePad Pro on October 15. ↫ Andrew Romero at 9To5Google Huawei has been hard at work making sure there&#8217;s no &#8216;application gap&#8217; for people using HarmonyOS NEXT, claiming it has 10000 applications ready to go that cover &#8220;99.9%&#8221; of their users&#8217; use case. That&#8217;s quite impressive, but of course, we&#8217;ll have to wait and see if the numbers line up with the reality on the ground for Chinese consumers. Here in the est HarmonyOS NEXT is unlikely to gain any serious traction, but that doesn&#8217;t mean I would mind taking a look at the platform if at all possible. It&#8217;s honestly not surprising the most serious attempt at creating a third mobile ecosystem is coming from China, because here in the west the market is so grossly rusted shut we&#8217;re going to be stuck with Android and iOS until the day I die. 

<br> 

<https://www.osnews.com/story/140915/huaweis-android-free-harmonyos-next-will-go-live-next-week/>

---

## Google is preparing to let you run Linux apps on Android, just like Chrome OS

date: 2024-10-16, from: OS News

Engineers at Google started work on a new Terminal app for Android a couple of weeks ago. This Terminal app is part of the Android Virtualization Framework (AVF) and contains a WebView that connects to a Linux virtual machine via a local IP address, allowing you to run Linux commands from the Android host. Initially, you had to manually enable this Terminal app using a shell command and then configure the Linux VM yourself. However, in recent days, Google began work on integrating the Terminal app into Android as well as turning it into an all-in-one app for running a Linux distro in a VM. ↫ Mishaal Rahman at Android Authority There already are a variety of ways to do this today, but having it as a supported feature implemented by Google is very welcome. This is also going to greatly increase the number of spammy articles and lazy YouTube videos telling you how to &#8220;run Ubuntu on your phone&#8221;, which I&#8217;m not particularly looking forward to. 

<br> 

<https://www.osnews.com/story/140912/google-is-preparing-to-let-you-run-linux-apps-on-android-just-like-chrome-os/>

---

## PureOS Crimson Development Report: September 2024

date: 2024-10-16, from: Purism News and Events

<p>It&#8217;s good to see you again Welcome back!  As always, we greatly appreciate the support of PureOS subscribers.  Advancing PureOS benefits all Librem devices as well as the larger FLOSS ecosystem.  Your support is crucial to that mission. In our last update, PureOS development was blocked in August as the Laniakea maintainer was away.  In September, [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a rel="nofollow" href="https://puri.sm/posts/pureos-crimson-development-report-september-2024/">PureOS Crimson Development Report: September 2024</a> appeared first on <a rel="nofollow" href="https://puri.sm/">Purism</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://puri.sm/posts/pureos-crimson-development-report-september-2024/>

---

## California Uber and Lyft Drivers Could Get Back Pay

date: 2024-10-16, from: The Markup blog

The state Labor Commissioner sues to help ride-hailing drivers with wage theft that happened before Proposition 22 took effect 

<br> 

<https://themarkup.org/working-for-an-algorithm/2024/10/16/california-uber-and-lyft-drivers-could-get-back-pay>

---

## The new Kindle Scribe (2024) offers a more paper-like writing experience, plus new AI & annotation tools

date: 2024-10-16, from: Liliputing

<p>When the Amazon Kindle Scribe first launched in 2022, it was Amazon&#8217;s first Kindle-branded device made as much for writing as it was for reading. With a 10.2 inch E Ink display and a digital pen, you could use it to take notes or annotate some documents. Now Amazon is launching a new model with [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/the-new-kindle-scribe-2024-offers-a-more-paper-like-writing-experience-plus-new-ai-annotation-tools/">The new Kindle Scribe (2024) offers a more paper-like writing experience, plus new AI &#038; annotation tools</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/the-new-kindle-scribe-2024-offers-a-more-paper-like-writing-experience-plus-new-ai-annotation-tools/>

---

## Amazon Kindle (2024) specs compared

date: 2024-10-16, from: Liliputing

<p>Amazon&#8217;s entire Kindle lineup is getting a 2024 makeover with new versions of the Kindle, Kindle Paperwhite, and Kindle Scribe. The new Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition is Amazon&#8217;s first Kindle-branded devices to feature an E Ink color display. The new entry-level Kindle and Kindle Paperwhite models feature faster page refresh times and the Paperwhite models [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/amazon-kindle-2024-specs-compared/">Amazon Kindle (2024) specs compared</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/amazon-kindle-2024-specs-compared/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

How to Connect Your WordPress Site To The Fediverse. 

<br> 

<https://docpop.org/2024/09/fediverse-files-5-how-to-connect-your-wordpress-site-to-the-fediverse/>

---

## Amazon Kindle Colorsoft is a $280 eReader with a 7 inch E Ink color display

date: 2024-10-16, from: Liliputing

<p>Amazon&#8217;s first Kindle eReader with a color display is up for pre-order for $280 and set to ship on October 30, 2024. The new Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition features a 7 inch color display that combines an E Ink Kaleido screen with Amazon&#8217;s custom oxide backplane, custom coating between the display layers, and LED lights  with [&#8230;]</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://liliputing.com/amazon-kindle-colorsoft-is-a-280-ereader-with-a-7-inch-e-ink-color-display/">Amazon Kindle Colorsoft is a $280 eReader with a 7 inch E Ink color display</a> appeared first on <a href="https://liliputing.com">Liliputing</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://liliputing.com/amazon-kindle-colorsoft-is-a-280-ereader-with-a-7-inch-e-ink-color-display/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

For people thinking fascism might not be so bad, have a look at this little girl, born in 1938. Her story ends at age 6, thanks to fascism. Think about a child you know and what risks you&#39;re taking on their behalf when you vote fascist. 

<br> 

<https://mastodon.social/@auschwitzmuseum@mastodon.world/113317464220189299>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

How Digg helped invent the social internet. 

<br> 

<https://www.theverge.com/c/24209615/digg-internet-web-2-homepage-2004-kevin-rose-interview>

---

## AI-Powered Social Media Manipulation App Promises to 'Shape Reality'

date: 2024-10-16, from: 404 Media Group

A prototype app called Impact describes “A Volunteer Fire Department For The Digital World,” which would summon real people to copy and paste AI-generated talking points on social media. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/ai-powered-social-media-manipulation-app-promises-to-shape-reality-4/>

---

## Llamafile v0.8.14: a new UI, performance gains, and more

date: 2024-10-16, from: Mozilla Developer Network blog

<p>Discover the latest release of Llamafile 0.8.14, an open-source AI tool by Mozilla Builders. With a new command-line chat interface, enhanced performance, and support for powerful models, Llamafile makes it easy to run large language models (LLMs) on your own hardware. Learn more about the updates and how to get involved with this cutting-edge project.</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://hacks.mozilla.org/2024/10/llamafile-v0-8-14-a-new-ui-performance-gains-and-more/">Llamafile v0.8.14: a new UI, performance gains, and more</a> appeared first on <a href="https://hacks.mozilla.org">Mozilla Hacks - the Web developer blog</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://hacks.mozilla.org/2024/10/llamafile-v0-8-14-a-new-ui-performance-gains-and-more/>

---

## 2.1 Quadillion Years

date: 2024-10-16, updated: 2024-10-16, from: One Foot Tsunami

 

<br> 

<https://onefoottsunami.com/2024/10/16/2-1-quadillion-years/>

---

## Podcast: Why the WordPress Chaos Matters

date: 2024-10-16, from: 404 Media Group

How the WordPress chaos may impact the web; using AI to apply for jobs; and how the National Archives wants to push its employees to use Google's AI. 

<br> 

<https://www.404media.co/podcast-why-the-wordpress-chaos-matters/>

---

## Launching Blacklight Query, a Tool to Scan Websites for Privacy at Scale

date: 2024-10-16, from: The Markup blog

Inspect batches of websites for user-tracking tech with our new open-source command-line tool 

<br> 

<https://themarkup.org/blacklight/2024/10/16/blacklight-query>

---

## Who Represents You in the AI Copyright Lawsuits?

date: 2024-10-16, from: Authors Union blogs

Sara Silverman is the author of The Bedwetter, a comedy memoir.  Richard Kadrey wrote Sandman Slim, a fantasy novel series. Christopher Golden, a supernatural thriller titled Ararat.  These authors might not seem to have much in common with an academic author who writes in history, physics, or chemistry. Or a journalist. Or a poet. Or, [&#8230;] 

<br> 

<https://www.authorsalliance.org/2024/10/16/who-represents-you-in-the-ai-copyright-lawsuits/>

---

**@Dave Winer's linkblog** (date: 2024-10-16, from: Dave Winer's linkblog)

Never before has a presidential nominee openly suggested turning the military on Americans simply because they oppose his candidacy. With voting underway, Donald Trump has turned to dark vows of retribution. 

<br> 

<https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/15/us/politics/trump-opponents-enemy-within.html>

---

## How to convert CommonJS to ESM

date: 2024-10-16, updated: 2024-10-16, from: Deno blog

Here’s a thorough guide that covers everything you need to know to migrate your CommonJS project to ESM. 

<br> 

<https://deno.com/blog/convert-cjs-to-esm>

---

## Building a Raspberry Pi Pico 2-powered drone from scratch

date: 2024-10-16, from: Raspberry Pi News (.com)

<p>For his last trick, our summer intern built this Raspberry Pi-packed drone from scratch.</p>
<p>The post <a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/building-a-raspberry-pi-pico-2-powered-drone-from-scratch/">Building a Raspberry Pi Pico 2-powered drone from scratch</a> appeared first on <a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com">Raspberry Pi</a>.</p>
 

<br> 

<https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/building-a-raspberry-pi-pico-2-powered-drone-from-scratch/>

---

## GHC 9.12.1-alpha1 is now available

date: 2024-10-16, from: Glasgow Haskell Compiler

<h1>GHC 9.12.1-alpha1 is now available</h1>
<h4 class="text-muted">Zubin Duggal - 2024-10-16</h4>

<p>The GHC developers are very pleased to announce the availability
of the first alpha release of GHC 9.12.1. Binary distributions, source
distributions, and documentation are available at <a href="https://downloads.haskell.org/ghc/9.12.1-alpha1">downloads.haskell.org</a>.</p>
<p>We hope to have this release available via ghcup shortly.</p>
<p>GHC 9.12 will bring a number of new features and improvements, including:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>The new language extension <a href="https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/blob/master/proposals/0522-or-patterns.rst">OrPatterns</a> allowing you to combine multiple
pattern clauses into one.</p></li>
<li><p>The <a href="https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/blob/master/proposals/0569-multiline-strings.rst">MultilineStrings</a> language extension to allow you to more easily write
strings spanning multiple lines in your source code.</p></li>
<li><p>Improvements to the OverloadedRecordDot extension, allowing the built-in
<code>HasField</code> class to be used for records with fields of non lifted representations.</p></li>
<li><p>The <a href="https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/blob/master/proposals/0409-exportable-named-default.rst">NamedDefaults</a> language extension has been introduced allowing you to
define defaults for typeclasses other than <code>Num</code>.</p></li>
<li><p>More deterministic object code output, controlled by the <code>-fobject-determinism</code>
flag, which improves determinism of builds a lot (though does not fully do so)
at the cost of some compiler performance (1-2%). See <a href="https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/issues/12935">#12935</a> for the details</p></li>
<li><p>GHC now accepts type syntax in expressions as part of <a href="https://github.com/ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals/blob/master/proposals/0281-visible-forall.rst">GHC Proposal <span>#281</span></a>.</p></li>
<li><p>… and many more</p></li>
</ul>
<p>A full accounting of changes can be found in the <a href="https://downloads.haskell.org/ghc/9.12.1-alpha1/docs/users_guide/9.12.1-notes.html">release notes</a>.
As always, GHC’s release status, including planned future releases, can
be found on the GHC Wiki <a href="https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/wikis/GHC-status">status</a>.</p>
<p>We would like to thank GitHub, IOG, the Zw3rk stake pool,
Well-Typed, Tweag I/O, Serokell, Equinix, SimSpace, the Haskell
Foundation, and other anonymous contributors whose on-going financial
and in-kind support has facilitated GHC maintenance and release
management over the years. Finally, this release would not have been
possible without the hundreds of open-source contributors whose work
comprise this release.</p>
<p>As always, do give this release a try and open a <a href="https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/new">ticket</a> if you see
anything amiss.</p>
 

<br> 

<http://haskell.org/ghc/blog/20241016-ghc-9.12.1-alpha1-released.html>

