---
title: weather
updated: 2025-04-21 14:07:27
---

# weather

(date: 2025-04-21 14:07:27)

---

## SPC - No watches are valid as of Mon Apr 21 21:01:01 UTC 2025

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

No watches are valid as of Mon Apr 21 21:01:01 UTC 2025. 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/>

---

## SPC - No MDs are in effect as of Mon Apr 21 21:01:01 UTC 2025

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

No Mesoscale Discussions are in effect as of Mon Apr 21 21:01:01 UTC 2025. 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/>

---

## The Eastern North Pacific hurricane season runs from May 15th through November 30th.

date: 2025-04-21, from: Eastern Pacific Basin GIS Data

The Eastern North Pacific hurricane season runs from May 15th through November 30th. 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/>

---

## SPC Apr 21, 2025 2000 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0255 PM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 212000Z - 221200Z

...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE UPPER OHIO VALLEY AND LOWER GREAT LAKES...AND PORTIONS OF THE
SOUTHEAST...

...SUMMARY...
Isolated strong to severe thunderstorms are possible today across
the upper Ohio Valley/lower Great Lakes and parts of the Southeast.
Damaging winds and marginally severe hail are the primary risks.

...20Z Update...
The Marginal risk in the Lower Great Lakes was trimmed behind the
eastward-moving frontal band of convection. Elsewhere, the forecast
remains on track and minimal changes were made with this update. For
details on the near-term severe risk, reference MCDs #512 and #513.

..Weinman.. 04/21/2025

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 1124 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025/

...Upper OH Valley...
Morning surface analysis and satellite imagery show a cold front
sweeping eastward across OH.  Considerable cloud cover is present
ahead of the front, but a narrow corridor of heating immediately
ahead of the front will allow a period of heating - promoting
scattered thunderstorms.  Low-level moisture is limited with
dewpoints only in the 50s, and forecast soundings show CAPE values
generally below 1000 J/kg.  Nevertheless, strong low and mid-level
winds and considerable vertical shear will promote a risk of a few
organized/severe storms capable of damaging wind gusts and perhaps a
tornado or two.  Refer to upcoming MCD #511 for further details.

...LA/MS/AL/GA/TN...
The aforementioned surface cold front extends southeastward across
west TN.  A relatively moist air mass is present ahead of the front
from southeast LA into parts of MS/AL and middle/east TN, although
considerable cloud cover will limit heating.  Most 12z models
suggest scattered thunderstorms will form in this zone during the
late afternoon and evening, with sufficient CAPE for a few robust
updrafts.  Low and mid level winds are not particularly strong, and
large scale forcing is weak.  This should limit the overall
organization and severity of storms, but a few cells may produce
gusty winds and hail.

...SD...
Water vapor imagery shows a mid-level shortwave trough over WY
approaching SD.  Forcing ahead of this feature will likely lead to
scattered high-based showers and thunderstorms across eastern WY and
western/central SD this afternoon and evening.  There is some chance
that a storm or two could produce locally damaging wind gusts.

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_2000.html>

---

## SPC Day 2 Fire Weather Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy2.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/day2fireotlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 2 Fire Weather Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 2 Fire Weather Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0240 PM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 221200Z - 231200Z

...NO CRITICAL AREAS...

No forecast changes were made, see previous discussion below.
Diffuse southwest winds amid a dry air mass across the Southwestern
U.S. is expected Tuesday, with primary affect of facilitating
drying/curing of fuels across the region. However, widespread
sustained winds of 15-20 mph are not expected under weak zonal flow
aloft.

..Williams/Lyons.. 04/21/2025

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 0123 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025/

...Synopsis...
A relatively zonal upper-flow pattern is expected over the CONUS
tomorrow (Tuesday). At the surface, gradual moisture return is
expected over the Plains into the Mississippi Valley while dry
conditions persist over the Interior West to the High Plains.
However, no significant overlaps of widespread dry and windy
conditions are expected across the CONUS on Tuesday, so quiescent
wildfire-spread conditions should be the norm.

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov/fire for graphic product...

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy2.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy2.html>

---

## SPC Apr 21, 2025 1930 UTC Day 3 Severe Thunderstorm Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 3 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 3 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0218 PM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 231200Z - 241200Z

...THERE IS A SLIGHT RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
WEST TEXAS AND FAR SOUTHEAST NEW MEXICO...

...SUMMARY...
Isolated severe thunderstorms are possible across portions of the
central and southern High Plains on Wednesday.

...Central/Southern High Plains...
Persistent southwesterly flow will be present across the western and
central United States on Wednesday. This will result in continue lee
surface troughing across the southern and central High Plains. A
stalled frontal boundary will extend from the Upper Midwest to the
central High Plains. Continued low-level moisture advection should
destabilize the warm sector east of the dryline. Any weak
perturbations within the southwesterly flow aloft should provide
ample forcing for storm development along the dryline within a
mostly uncapped airmass (per 12Z GFS forecast soundings). If this
GFS solution verifies, a slight risk will probably be needed across
much of the dryline from the Trans Pecos to eastern Colorado.
However, the ECMWF has an extensive area of precipitation along the
front in Kansas Wednesday morning which expands across much of the
state and into Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. This would have
significant implications on warm sector destabilization and
northward moisture transport on Wednesday. Due to this uncertainty
have kept probabilities at Level 1/Marginal at this time from the
Texas Panhandle northward. Farther south, across West Texas,
Confidence in a moderately unstable, uncapped airmass along the
dryline is higher. Therefore, a slight risk (Level 2 of 5) has been
added in this area for the potential for large hail and severe wind
gusts Wednesday afternoon/evening.

..Bentley.. 04/21/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk_1930.html>

---

## SPC Apr 21, 2025 1730 UTC Day 2 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 2 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 2 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1220 PM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 221200Z - 231200Z

...THERE IS A SLIGHT RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS THE
SOUTHERN HIGH PLAINS AND INTO PARTS OF SOUTHERN KANSAS...

...SUMMARY...
Isolated to scattered severe thunderstorms are possible on Tuesday
across portions of the southern Plains.

...Synopsis...
A mostly zonal pattern will be in place across the CONUS with
multiple embedded weak shortwave troughs on Tuesday. One such trough
which is forecast to move across New Mexico during the afternoon may
result in some weak lee troughing and support the potential for
isolated to scattered severe storms along the dryline Tuesday
afternoon.

...Southern High Plains...
Low-level moisture will advect northward across West Texas ahead of
a dryline Tuesday morning. Strong surface heating will lead to
moderate to strong destabilization along and ahead of the dryline.
Forecast soundings show a weakly capped airmass which should be
sufficient for isolated to scattered thunderstorm development by mid
to late afternoon as weak forcing from the mid-level trough
overspreads the dryline. 30 to 35 knots of shear should support
high-based, slow-moving supercells with a threat for large hail and
severe wind gusts. An isolated tornado threat may also exist where
better low-level moisture is present, farther south, and where
intersecting boundaries could enhance low-level vorticity ingestion.

Upscale growth may eventually occur with one or more MCSs moving
east into the evening and overnight hours, supported by a modestly
enhanced low-level jet.

...Northern Panhandle into Kansas...
A surface front is forecast to extend across Kansas and into the
OK/northern TX Panhandle by Tuesday afternoon. Only modest moisture
recovery will occur this far north, but it may be sufficient for
moderate instability along the front by mid-afternoon. 25 to 30
knots of shear will support some storm organization. Very steep
lapse rates and a relatively dry profile will support the potential
for isolated large hail and severe wind gusts. 

...IA/WI/IL...
A stalled frontal boundary will be in place across the Mid-MO Valley
into southern WI on Tuesday. Modest moisture return and persistent
isentropic ascent along this boundary may be sufficient for isolated
thunderstorm development amid weak diurnal destabilization. Low to
midlevel flow will remain rather weak, but rapidly increase above
700 mb, supporting effective shear magnitudes greater than 40 kt.
Cold temperatures aloft (-17 C near 500 mb) will support MLCAPE to
around 500 J/kg, and isolated convection could produce sporadic hail
or damaging wind gusts.

...Carolinas...
A cold front associated with a surface low over Quebec will move 
southeast across the Mid-Atlantic and Carolinas during the
afternoon/evening. Strong heating of a modestly moist boundary layer
ahead of the front will support a corridor of MLCAPE up to 1000-1500
J/kg. Weak low-level southwesterly flow will increase with height,
support effective shear magnitudes up to 35 kt. This should be
sufficient for a few stronger/organized cells. Steep low-level lapse
rates and somewhat elongated hodographs suggest transient supercells
capable of strong gusts and isolated hail will be possible. In
addition, any storms which interact with the sea breeze could have
locally enhanced updrafts and a periodically greater large
hail/damaging wind threat.

..Bentley.. 04/21/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk_1730.html>

---

## SPC Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/day1fireotlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1145 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 211700Z - 221200Z

A passing short wave over the Central Rockies will enhance dry,
downslope flow over the Central High Plains today where minimal
precipitation has fallen. Elevated highlights were extended into
northeastern Colorado where a more receptive fine fuel environment
is still likely.

..Williams/Lyons.. 04/21/2025

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 0111 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025/

...Synopsis...
A mid-level trough will impinge on the East Coast as a second trough
traverses the Northern Plains today. Surface lee troughing is
expected across the central High Plains as a mass response to the
passing of the Northern Plains trough, resulting in dry downslope
flow. By afternoon, 15-20 mph sustained southwesterly surface winds
will overlap with 15-20 percent RH over much of the Central High
Plains. Elevated highlights are in place from far northeast New
Mexico into central Nebraska, where fuels are dry.

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov/fire for graphic product...

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html>

---

## SPC Apr 21, 2025 1630 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1124 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 211630Z - 221200Z

...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE UPPER OHIO VALLEY AND LOWER GREAT LAKES...AND PORTIONS OF THE
SOUTHEAST...

...SUMMARY...
Isolated strong to severe thunderstorms are possible today across
the upper Ohio Valley/lower Great Lakes and parts of the Southeast.
Damaging winds and marginally severe hail are the primary risks.

...Upper OH Valley...
Morning surface analysis and satellite imagery show a cold front
sweeping eastward across OH.  Considerable cloud cover is present
ahead of the front, but a narrow corridor of heating immediately
ahead of the front will allow a period of heating - promoting
scattered thunderstorms.  Low-level moisture is limited with
dewpoints only in the 50s, and forecast soundings show CAPE values
generally below 1000 J/kg.  Nevertheless, strong low and mid-level
winds and considerable vertical shear will promote a risk of a few
organized/severe storms capable of damaging wind gusts and perhaps a
tornado or two.  Refer to upcoming MCD #511 for further details.

...LA/MS/AL/GA/TN...
The aforementioned surface cold front extends southeastward across
west TN.  A relatively moist air mass is present ahead of the front
from southeast LA into parts of MS/AL and middle/east TN, although
considerable cloud cover will limit heating.  Most 12z models
suggest scattered thunderstorms will form in this zone during the
late afternoon and evening, with sufficient CAPE for a few robust
updrafts.  Low and mid level winds are not particularly strong, and
large scale forcing is weak.  This should limit the overall
organization and severity of storms, but a few cells may produce
gusty winds and hail.

...SD...
Water vapor imagery shows a mid-level shortwave trough over WY
approaching SD.  Forcing ahead of this feature will likely lead to
scattered high-based showers and thunderstorms across eastern WY and
western/central SD this afternoon and evening.  There is some chance
that a storm or two could produce locally damaging wind gusts.

..Hart/Thornton.. 04/21/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_1630.html>

---

## SPC Apr 21, 2025 1300 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0730 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 211300Z - 221200Z

...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE UPPER OHIO VALLEY AND LOWER GREAT LAKES...AND PORTIONS OF THE
SOUTHEAST...

...SUMMARY...
Isolated strong to severe thunderstorms are possible today across
the upper Ohio Valley/lower Great Lakes and parts of the Southeast.
Damaging winds and marginally severe hail are the primary risks.

...Upper Ohio Valley to the Lower Great Lakes...
An upper trough with an attendant 55-70 kt mid-level jet will
advance east-northeastward from the Upper Midwest across the Great
Lakes and Northeast today. A related surface low will develop
northeastward into Ontario/Quebec, while a cold front sweeps
eastward over the OH Valley and parts of the Mid-Atlantic and
Northeast through this evening. Modest low-level moisture will
advect northward ahead of this front in tandem with a strong
southwesterly low-level jet. Even though this moisture will remain
somewhat limited, filtered daytime heating and cool mid-level
temperatures should aid weak destabilization in a narrow corridor
along/ahead of the front by early afternoon. Thunderstorms that
develop along the front may pose an isolated severe/damaging wind
threat this afternoon and early evening given the expected strength
of the low/mid-level flow. Occasional hail may also be noted with
the strongest cores, and sufficient low-level shear should exist to
support a tornado or two. The Marginal Risk has been expanded
northward/eastward some based on latest guidance trends regarding
sufficient destabilization to support surface-based convection.

...Southeast...
The trailing portion of the surface cold front should make only slow
east-southeastward progress today across the Southeast. This region
will have weaker low/mid-level winds compared to locations farther
north. Still, around 500-1500 J/kg of MLCAPE should develop by this
afternoon along/ahead of the front, while 25-35 kt of deep-layer
shear aids in modest updraft organization. Any thunderstorms which
develop in this regime could pose an isolated threat for marginally
severe hail and damaging winds. This threat should peak by mid
afternoon, before gradually diminishing through the evening with the
loss of daytime heating.

...Northern Plains...
Gusty winds may occur with high-based convection this afternoon as a
shortwave trough moves eastward over the northern Plains. However,
low-level moisture and instability are both expected to remain very
meager, which should preclude an organized severe wind threat.

...Upper Midwest...
Elevated thunderstorms may develop late tonight across parts of IA
in a low-level warm advection regime. With MUCAPE forecast to remain
less than 1000 J/kg, the potential for severe hail appears too
limited to include low severe probabilities at this time.

..Gleason/Broyles.. 04/21/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_1300.html>

---

## SPC Apr 21, 2025 Day 4-8 Severe Weather Outlook

date: 2025-04-21, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/day48prob.gif" border="1" alt="Day 4-8 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 4-8 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0307 AM CDT Mon Apr 21 2025

Valid 241200Z - 291200Z

...DISCUSSION...
...Day 4/Thu -- Central/Southern Plains...

Some severe thunderstorm potential is possible across the
southern/central Plains on Day 4/Thu. Similar to the Day 2-3/Tue-Wed
period, a low-amplitude, and generally modest deep-layer
southwesterly flow regime will persist. Southerly low level flow
ahead of a southward sagging front across the central Plains, and to
the east of a dryline extending southward across the southern High
Plains will sustain advection of Gulf moisture across the region. At
least some risk for isolated severe thunderstorms appears possible
within the moist/unstable warm sector. However, convection may be
ongoing across portions of the region Thursday morning, and given a
lack of any stronger upper forcing regime or surface cyclogenesis,
confidence in where greater severe potential may develop is low,
precluding 15 percent delineation at this time.

...Days 5-6/Fri-Sat -- Southern Plains vicinity...

Upper riding is forecast to overspread the Plains late in the week
ahead of a deepening western U.S. upper trough. A cold front will
sag south and east on Friday, extending from the Ohio Valley into
the southern High Plains. As the upper ridge builds, richer Gulf
moisture will develop across TX into OK. Some localized
strong/severe storms may develop across west TX during this time
within the moist upslope flow regime, but the upper ridge and weak
forcing should suppress more widespread severe potential.

...Days 7-8/Sun-Mon -- Plains to the MS Valley...

Severe potential is likely to increase from OK/TX into the central
Plains/Mid-MO Valley by early next week as the western upper trough
begins to eject eastward. This should result in stronger
southwesterly mid/upper flow overspreading a broad warm sector. This
overall pattern is a synoptically favorable spring time pattern for
severe storms across the Plains. Furthermore, control members and
ensemble members from the GFS and ECMWF are in fairly good agreement
regarding the timing/location of the ejecting upper trough and
stronger southwesterly flow overspreading the region. Nevertheless,
uncertainty remains too high to include 15 percent delineated areas
at this time. This is particularly the case of Day 7/Sun where
forecast guidance has widespread precipitation ongoing during the
morning. Given the otherwise favorable pattern, severe probabilities
will likely be needed in the coming days as details become better
refined.

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/>

---

## SPC MD 504

date: 2025-04-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md0504.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd0504.png" border="1" alt="MD 0504 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 0504
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0246 PM CDT Sun Apr 20 2025

Areas affected...Northwest/north-central Arkansas into southern
Missouri

Concerning...Tornado Watch 154...

Valid 201946Z - 202115Z

The severe weather threat for Tornado Watch 154 continues.

SUMMARY...Storms moving into north-central Arkansas and southern
Missouri will pose a risk of tornadoes--some strong--and damaging
winds. There are signs of discrete storms within the line in
northwest/west-central Arkansas. These storms would bring the
greatest tornado risk.

DISCUSSION...KSRX radar imagery shows a few semi-discrete storms in
far western Arkansas. MRMS CAPPI data also shows these storms
intensifying. Mid-level ascent with southern extent will remain more
limited, but deep-layer shear vectors slightly more perpendicular to
the cold front will also favor discrete storms. VAD data from
KSGF/KLZK/KLSX all have shown an increase in low-level SRH over the
past couple of hours. This trend should continue, particularly in
Missouri. Supercell and QLCS tornadoes, some of which could be
strong, are all possible in this environment. Additionally, the more
linear convective elements will also pose a threat of wind damage.

..Wendt.. 04/20/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...LZK...SGF...TSA...

LAT...LON   36229452 36709452 37129414 37419288 37379162 36929141
            35529178 34889289 34619371 34509449 36229452 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...120-150 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...65-80 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...1.00-1.75 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md0504.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md0504.html>

---

## SPC MD 502

date: 2025-04-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md0502.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd0502.png" border="1" alt="MD 0502 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 0502
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0220 PM CDT Sun Apr 20 2025

Areas affected...Eastern Missouri into western Illinois and far
southeastern Iowa

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch likely 

Valid 201920Z - 202115Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...80 percent

SUMMARY...A tornado watch will be forthcoming for portions of
eastern Missouri into western Illinois and far southeastern Iowa, as
a warm frontal boundary continues to lift northward out of central
Missouri.

DISCUSSION...Breaks in cloud cover, along with a northward-lifting
surface warm frontal boundary, have resulted in continued
destabilization across eastern Missouri into western Illinois. With
mixed-layer CAPE forecast to exceed 1000 J/kg in the presence of
strong wind shear (and strong curvature of the low-level hodograph
in the vicinity of the front), the tornado threat is expected to
increase this afternoon into the evening hours. 

Ongoing storms along the MO/KS/OK borders are forecast to continue
north and east into the new watch area, with supercells embedded
within a largely linear complex. Any embedded supercells (especially
any within the vicinity of the warm front), as well as any
pre-frontal storms, will have access to an environment characterized
by strong low-level shear/streamwise vorticity supportive of tornado
development. Current VAD wind profiles from KLSX show 200 m^2/s^2 of
0-500m storm relative helicity -- nearly double what is shown in the
current SPC Mesoanalysis. Given the environmental support for
tornadoes, some of which may be strong, a tornado watch is
anticipated within the next hour or two.

..Halbert/Goss.. 04/20/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...PAH...ILX...LSX...DVN...SGF...DMX...EAX...

LAT...LON   41249043 41119012 40788991 40498976 39178955 38668947
            38138943 37538936 37258941 36988946 36868967 36749007
            36709052 36679128 36699176 36819216 36939224 37269227
            38759232 39489239 40199248 40619251 41139238 41309216
            41289125 41249043 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...120-150 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...65-80 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...1.00-1.75 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md0502.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md0502.html>

---

## SPC Tornado Watch 155 Status Reports

date: 2025-04-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0155.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0155_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0155 Status Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

STATUS FOR WATCH 0155 HAS NOT BEEN ISSUED YET
</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0155.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0155.html>

---

## SPC Tornado Watch 155

date: 2025-04-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0155.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0155_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0155 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
Tornado Watch Number 155
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
340 PM CDT Sun Apr 20 2025

The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

* Tornado Watch for portions of 
  southeastern Iowa
  western and centrl Illinois
  far western Kentucky
  eastern Missouri

* Effective this Sunday afternoon and evening from 340 PM until
  1100 PM CDT.

* Primary threats include...
  A few tornadoes and a couple intense tornadoes possible
  Scattered damaging wind gusts to 70 mph likely
  Scattered large hail events to 1.5 inches in diameter possible

SUMMARY...Ongoing strong/severe thunderstorms are forecast to
continue moving eastward/northeastward across Missouri this
afternoon and evening, spreading into parts of southeastern Iowa and
Illinois over the next several hours.  Along with some hail risk,
damaging wind gusts are expected, along with potential for tornadoes
-- a couple of which could be strong.

The tornado watch area is approximately along and 60 statute miles
east and west of a line from 30 miles north northeast of Burlington
IA to 15 miles east southeast of Poplar Bluff MO. For a complete
depiction of the watch see the associated watch outline update
(WOUS64 KWNS WOU5).

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

REMEMBER...A Tornado Watch means conditions are favorable for
tornadoes and severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch
area. Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for
threatening weather conditions and listen for later statements
and possible warnings.

&&

OTHER WATCH INFORMATION...CONTINUE...WW 154...

AVIATION...Tornadoes and a few severe thunderstorms with hail
surface and aloft to 1.5 inches. Extreme turbulence and surface wind
gusts to 60 knots. A few cumulonimbi with maximum tops to 500. Mean
storm motion vector 23040.

...Goss

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0155.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0155.html>

---

## SPC Tornado Watch 154 Status Reports

date: 2025-04-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0154.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0154_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0154 Status Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

STATUS REPORT ON WW 154

SEVERE WEATHER THREAT CONTINUES RIGHT OF A LINE FROM 35 S PRX TO
25 WSW DEQ TO 20 NNE DEQ TO 30 ESE RKR TO 5 N FYV TO 15 WNW UMN
TO 30 SE OJC.

..WENDT..04/20/25

ATTN...WFO...LZK...TSA...SHV...SGF...EAX...LSX...


STATUS REPORT FOR WT 154 

SEVERE WEATHER THREAT CONTINUES FOR THE FOLLOWING AREAS 

ARC005-009-015-019-023-027-029-039-045-047-049-051-053-057-059-
061-065-071-073-081-083-087-089-091-097-099-101-103-105-109-113-
115-119-125-127-129-133-137-141-149-202140-

AR 
.    ARKANSAS COUNTIES INCLUDED ARE

BAXTER               BOONE               CARROLL             
CLARK                CLEBURNE            COLUMBIA            
CONWAY               DALLAS              FAULKNER            
FRANKLIN             FULTON              GARLAND             
GRANT                HEMPSTEAD           HOT SPRING          
HOWARD               IZARD               JOHNSON             
LAFAYETTE            LITTLE RIVER        LOGAN               
MADISON              MARION              MILLER              
MONTGOMERY           NEVADA              NEWTON              
OUACHITA             PERRY               PIKE                
POLK                 POPE                PULASKI             
SALINE               SCOTT               SEARCY              
SEVIER               STONE               VAN BUREN           
YELL                 


LAC015-017-119-202140-
</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0154.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0154.html>

---

## SPC Tornado Watch 154

date: 2025-04-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0154.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0154_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0154 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
Tornado Watch Number 154
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1200 PM CDT Sun Apr 20 2025

The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

* Tornado Watch for portions of 
  western and central Arkansas
  southeastern Kansas
  northwestern Louisiana
  central and southern Missouri
  eastern Oklahoma
  far northeastern Texas

* Effective this Sunday afternoon and evening from NOON until 700
  PM CDT.

* Primary threats include...
  Several tornadoes likely with a couple intense tornadoes
    possible
  Scattered damaging wind gusts to 70 mph likely
  Scattered large hail events to 1.5 inches in diameter possible

SUMMARY...A steady increase in coverage and intensity of
thunderstorms is expected to occur over the next several hours, with
severe-weather potential evolving from eastern Oklahoma and the
Arklatex region northward into Missouri.  Along with risk for fairly
widespread damaging wind gusts and hail, several tornadoes are
expected -- including potential for a few that are
strong/longer-lived.

The tornado watch area is approximately along and 75 statute miles
east and west of a line from 45 miles north of Springfield MO to 25
miles west of Texarkana AR. For a complete depiction of the watch
see the associated watch outline update (WOUS64 KWNS WOU4).

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

REMEMBER...A Tornado Watch means conditions are favorable for
tornadoes and severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch
area. Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for
threatening weather conditions and listen for later statements
and possible warnings.

&&

AVIATION...Tornadoes and a few severe thunderstorms with hail
surface and aloft to 1.5 inches. Extreme turbulence and surface wind
gusts to 60 knots. A few cumulonimbi with maximum tops to 500. Mean
storm motion vector 23040.

...Goss

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0154.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0154.html>

