---
title: weather
updated: 2025-07-24 06:09:31
---

# weather

(date: 2025-07-24 06:09:31)

---

## There are no tropical cyclones at this time.

date: 2025-07-25, from: Central Pacific Basin Tropical Cyclones

No tropical cyclones as of Thu, 24 Jul 2025 13:00:14 GMT 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/>

---

## There are no tropical cyclones at this time.

date: 2025-07-25, from: Eastern Pacific Basin GIS Data

No tropical cyclones as of Thu, 24 Jul 2025 13:00:14 GMT 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/gis/>

---

## SPC Jul 24, 2025 1300 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0730 AM CDT Thu Jul 24 2025

Valid 241300Z - 251200Z

...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS FROM PARTS OF
THE GREAT LAKES INTO THE MIDWEST...CENTRAL/SOUTHERN PLAINS...AND
HIGH PLAINS...

...SUMMARY...
Locally damaging thunderstorm wind gusts will be possible from parts
of the Great Lakes to the central and southern Plains, mainly this
afternoon and evening. Isolated severe storms will also pose a risk
of hail and severe wind gusts over portions of the northern and
central High Plains.

...Synopsis...
Modestly enhanced westerly mid-level flow will be maintained today
between an upper trough progressing slowly eastward over central
Canada and the north-central CONUS, and upper ridging across the
Southeast and Mid-Atlantic. Multiple mid-level MCVs evident on
satellite and radar should move generally east-northeastward across
parts of the Midwest and Great Lakes today. At the surface, a
convectively reinforced front will be draped from Ontario/Quebec
southwestward to the southern Plains. This front will likely serve
as a focused for additional scattered to numerous thunderstorms this
afternoon and evening, some of which could become strong to severe
on an isolated basis.

...Great Lakes into the Midwest and Central/Southern Plains...
A moist and rather unstable airmass will exist along/ahead of the
front today, as diurnal heating aids in the gradual steepening of
low-level lapse rates. Stronger mid-level flow and related
deep-layer shear should be present across parts of MI and vicinity.
Some enhancement to the low/mid-level winds and modest ascent
associated with an MCV over northeast WI this morning may also aid
in thunderstorm development and organization downstream into parts
of northern Lower MI by early afternoon. This area appears to have
the best combination of forecast instability and shear, and any
thunderstorms which can form here could become severe while posing a
threat for both isolated hail and damaging winds. However, low-level
flow along/near the front is generally expected to remain veered to
southwesterly, which should limit low-level convergence to some
extent. Therefore, confidence in overall coverage of severe
convection remains too low to include greater severe probabilities
across northern Lower MI at this time.

Mid-level flow and effective bulk shear values will decrease with
southward extent across the Midwest into the southern Plains, away
from any remnant MCV influences. This should tend to limit updraft
organization with thunderstorms that develop this afternoon across
these regions. Still, some potential should exist for loosely
organized clusters given the linear low-level forcing. And with
steep low-level lapse rates and moderate to strong instability, some
of this convection may be capable of producing strong to locally
severe winds through the early evening hours before eventually
weakening with the loss of daytime heating.

...High Plains...
Moderate instability should develop across parts of the
northern/central High Plains this afternoon. Large-scale ascent will
be weak behind a departing mid-level shortwave trough. Even so,
convective development should occur near the adjacent higher terrain
this afternoon. Effective shear of 25-40 kt will support some
updraft organization. Initially discrete cells may pose an isolated
threat for hail. Some outflow amalgamation/mergers could eventually
occur, with a threat of strong to locally severe gusts spreading
eastward into the evening before convection eventually weakens.
Farther south across portions of the southern High Plains, scattered
to numerous thunderstorms are also expected to develop this
afternoon/early evening. Deep-layer shear will remain weak across
this region, but localized strong to severe outflow gusts may still
be possible.

..Gleason/Grams.. 07/24/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_1300.html>

---

## SPC - No watches are valid as of Thu Jul 24 12:35:02 UTC 2025

date: 2025-07-24, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

No watches are valid as of Thu Jul 24 12:35:02 UTC 2025. 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/>

---

## SPC - No MDs are in effect as of Thu Jul 24 12:35:02 UTC 2025

date: 2025-07-24, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

No Mesoscale Discussions are in effect as of Thu Jul 24 12:35:02 UTC 2025. 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/>

---

## Central North Pacific Tropical Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: Central Pacific Basin Tropical Cyclones

000<br />ACPN50 PHFO 241136<br />TWOCP <br /><br />Tropical Weather Outlook<br />NWS Central Pacific Hurricane Center Honolulu HI<br />Issued by NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL<br />200 AM HST Thu Jul 24 2025<br /><br />For the central North Pacific...between 140W and 180W:<br /><br />Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:<br />An area of low pressure is forecast to develop well to the southeast<br />of the Hawaiian Islands by this weekend.  Thereafter, some gradual<br />development is possible and a tropical depression could form while<br />the system moves generally westward at 10 to 15 mph.<br />* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.<br />* Formation chance through 7 days...medium..40 percent.<br /><br />$$<br />Forecaster Pasch<br />NNNN 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/gtwo.php?basin=cpac>

---

## Eastern North Pacific Tropical Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: Eastern Pacific Basin Tropical Cyclones

000<br />ABPZ20 KNHC 241136<br />TWOEP <br /><br />Tropical Weather Outlook<br />NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL<br />500 AM PDT Thu Jul 24 2025<br /><br />For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:<br /><br />Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:<br />An area of low pressure is forecast to develop well to the southeast <br />of the Hawaiian Islands by this weekend.  Thereafter, some gradual <br />development is possible and a tropical depression could form while <br />the system moves generally westward at 10 to 15 mph.<br />* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.<br />* Formation chance through 7 days...medium..40 percent.<br /><br />$$<br />Forecaster Pasch 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/gtwo.php?basin=epac>

---

## Eastern Pacific Tropical Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: Eastern Pacific Tropical Weather Outlook

000<br />ABPZ20 KNHC 241136<br />TWOEP <br /><br />Tropical Weather Outlook<br />NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL<br />500 AM PDT Thu Jul 24 2025<br /><br />For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:<br /><br />Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:<br />An area of low pressure is forecast to develop well to the southeast <br />of the Hawaiian Islands by this weekend.  Thereafter, some gradual <br />development is possible and a tropical depression could form while <br />the system moves generally westward at 10 to 15 mph.<br />* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.<br />* Formation chance through 7 days...medium..40 percent.<br /><br />$$<br />Forecaster Pasch 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIATWOEP.shtml>

---

## Central Pacific Tropical Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: Central Pacific Tropical Weather Outlook

000<br />ACPN50 PHFO 241136<br />TWOCP <br /><br />Tropical Weather Outlook<br />NWS Central Pacific Hurricane Center Honolulu HI<br />Issued by NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL<br />200 AM HST Thu Jul 24 2025<br /><br />For the central North Pacific...between 140W and 180W:<br /><br />Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:<br />An area of low pressure is forecast to develop well to the southeast<br />of the Hawaiian Islands by this weekend.  Thereafter, some gradual<br />development is possible and a tropical depression could form while<br />the system moves generally westward at 10 to 15 mph.<br />* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.<br />* Formation chance through 7 days...medium..40 percent.<br /><br />$$<br />Forecaster Pasch<br />NNNN 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/HFOTWOCP.shtml>

---

## NHC Atlantic Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: Graphical Tropical Weather Outlooks


<br /><a href="https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/gtwo.php?basin=atlc&amp;fdays=2">
<img src="https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/xgtwo/resize/two_atl_2d0_resize.gif" alt="Atlantic 2-Day Graphical Outlook Image" width="400" height="326" /></a>
<br /><a href="https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/gtwo.php?basin=atlc&amp;fdays=7">
<img src="https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/xgtwo/resize/two_atl_7d0_resize.gif" alt="Atlantic 7-Day Graphical Outlook Image" width="400" height="326" /></a>
<br /><br />
<div class='textbackground'><div class='textproduct'><br />
ZCZC MIATWOAT ALL<br>TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM<br><br>Tropical Weather Outlook<br>NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL<br>800 AM EDT Thu Jul 24 2025<br><br>For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of America:<br><br>1. North-Central Gulf:<br>A trough of low pressure over the north-central Gulf is currently <br>producing a broad area of disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  <br>Over the next day or two, this system is forecast to move generally <br>westward across the north-central portion of the Gulf where some <br>slow development is possible.  By this weekend, the system is likely <br>to move inland, ending its chances for development. Regardless of <br>tropical cyclone formation, locally heavy rainfall is possible for <br>portions of the northern Gulf coast through this weekend.<br>* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent.<br>* Formation chance through 7 days...low...10 percent.<br><br><br><br>Forecaster Kelly<br><br></div></div><br />
 

<br> 

<https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/gtwo.php?basin=atlc>

---

## SPC Jul 24, 2025 Day 4-8 Severe Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/day48prob.gif" border="1" alt="Day 4-8 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 4-8 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0358 AM CDT Thu Jul 24 2025

Valid 271200Z - 011200Z

...DISCUSSION...
Models indicate substantive amplification within an initially zonal
belt of westerlies across the northern mid-latitude Pacific during
the coming days, with several embedded closed lows evolving,
including one by the beginning of the period across the northeastern
Pacific, on the leading edge of an increasingly blocked regime. 
Downstream, as another significant low, emerging from the Arctic
latitudes, turns across the eastern Northwest Territories into and
through Hudson Bay, mid/upper ridging is forecast to build through
much of the Canadian Prairies.  Gradually, models indicate that
amplified ridging will encompass much of interior North America,
across and east of the Rockies through the mid to latter portions of
next week, while amplified troughing evolves further downstream,
across the eastern Canadian provinces, the Great Lakes and
Northeast.

The evolution of this regime appears likely to be accompanied by a
plume of steepening mid-level lapse rates overspreading the northern
U.S. Great Plains and adjacent portions of southern Canada, toward
the Upper Midwest/Great Lakes, during the early to middle portion of
next week, before becoming suppressed southwestward.  Aided by the
return of seasonably high boundary layer moisture content to areas
near and northeast of the lower through middle Missouri Valley, it
appears that this will contribute to a broad area of moderate to
large potential instability.  

This environment may become conditionally supportive of the
evolution of longer-lived organized thunderstorm clusters, with
potential to produce swaths of damaging wind gusts across parts of
the northern Great Plains, Upper Midwest and Great Lakes into the
Ohio Valley and perhaps parts of the Northeast.  However, prior to
more substantive mid/upper trough amplification, and the southward
advancement of a cold front into much of the northeastern U.S. by
the middle of next week, the evolution of any such cluster, south of
the international border, will likely largely depend on subtle short
wave perturbations progressing through the larger scale ridging. 
Given the low predictability of these features at this extended
range, and the uncertain impacts of their associated convection and
outflow on subsequent destabilization, severe probabilities remain
low due to the uncertainties.

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/exper/day4-8/>

---

## SPC Day 2 Fire Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-24, from: NOAA Weather Forecasts

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy2.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/day2fireotlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 2 Fire Weather Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 2 Fire Weather Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1158 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Valid 251200Z - 261200Z

...Synopsis...
A mid-level low will continue inland on D2/Friday, with more widely
scattered thunderstorm activity continuing across portions of
northern California into the Pacific Northwest and northern Great
Basin. A mix of wet/dry thunderstorms will remain possible on the
periphery of the deeper moisture. As such, an area of Isolated Dry
Thunderstorm potential was maintained across the portions of the
Sierras in northern California into eastern Oregon, northern Nevada,
and central Idaho. Here, lower QPF amounts are forecast and fuels
remain receptive to fire spread.

..Thornton.. 07/24/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov/fire for graphic product...

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy2.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy2.html>

---

## SPC MD 1764

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1764.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1764.png" border="1" alt="MD 1764 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1764
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0343 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Areas affected...parts of northeastern Colorado...southeast
Wyoming...and far western Nebraska

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch unlikely 

Valid 232043Z - 232245Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...20 percent

SUMMARY...Storms may produce a few severe gusts and some marginally
severe hail across parts of northeastern Colorado, southeast
Wyoming, and far western Nebraska this afternoon. A watch is not
anticipated.

DISCUSSION...Mid-level clouds from morning convection have been slow
to clear portions of northeastern Colorado, and so heating has been
delayed, which has led to some residual inhibition. Despite this, a
narrow corridor of heating along the mountains has allowed storms to
percolate along the Front Range this afternoon in a post-frontal
upslope flow regime. These storms are well south of the strongest
mid-level flow, and therefore deep-layer shear is relatively weak.
Because of this, multicell clusters are expected to be the dominant
storm mode. In addition, the environment has some mid-level dry air
and steep lapse rates, which may lead to a threat for severe gusts
with the strongest clusters. Some hail is possible with these storms
given low freezing levels, but the lack of deep-layer shear and the
multicell storm mode may limit the severe hail risk with these
storms.

..Supinie/Smith.. 07/23/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...PUB...BOU...CYS...

LAT...LON   40680557 41640546 41850488 41770385 41080351 40040356
            39160367 38950484 39590547 40680557 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...UP TO 60 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...UP TO 1.25 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1764.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1764.html>

---

## SPC MD 1763

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1763.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1763.png" border="1" alt="MD 1763 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1763
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0254 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Areas affected...portions of southeast MN into north-central WI

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 231954Z - 232200Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...60 percent

SUMMARY...Intensifying thunderstorms may pose a risk of damaging
wind gusts across southeast Minnesota into portions of
northern/central Wisconsin the next few hours. Area is being
monitored for possible watch issuance.

DISCUSSION...Isolated to scattered thunderstorms are
developing/intensifying this afternoon along/just ahead of the
southward-advancing cold front. This activity is tracking along a
differential heating zone and within the strong instability gradient
oriented across north-central WI. Strong heating ahead of these
storms and dewpoints in the mid 70s have allowed inhibition to
weaken. This area is on the edges of more favorable deep shear, but
20-30 kt effective shear magnitudes may be sufficient for organized
clusters/small bows given strong instability. Modified RAP forecast
soundings and regional VWP data show somewhat small but favorably
curved low-level hodographs. Low-level shear will remain modest, but
given the very moist and unstable boundary layer, a tornado or two
also could occur, in addition to damaging wind gusts. This area is
being monitored for possible watch issuance.

..Leitman/Smith.. 07/23/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...MQT...GRB...DLH...ARX...MPX...

LAT...LON   44818795 44578908 44109197 43689420 43809439 44069426
            44489367 44969260 45339151 45599006 45718840 45258769
            44818795 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...85-115 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...55-70 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...UP TO 1.25 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1763.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1763.html>

---

## SPC MD 1762

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1762.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1762.png" border="1" alt="MD 1762 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1762
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0211 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Areas affected...parts of eastern Wyoming...southeastern Montana.
western South Dakota...and far northwestern Nebraska

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 231911Z - 232115Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...60 percent

SUMMARY...Storms with a risk of large hail and severe gusts are
possible this afternoon across portions of eastern Wyoming,
southeastern Montana, western South Dakota, and northwestern
Nebraska. A watch may be needed to cover this threat.

DISCUSSION...Storms are developing in a post-frontal upslope flow
regime in northern and eastern Wyoming. These storms are situated on
the southern periphery of a modest mid-level jet. This flow should
provide sufficient deep-layer shear for a supercell storm mode, and
given the relatively straight hodographs and lower freezing levels,
some severe hail is possible initially with these storms. The
deep-layer shear decreases markedly with southward extent, so this
may put a limit on the southern extent of the hail risk.

Given relatively high boundary layer humidity, cold pools may be
weaker, and therefore upscale growth may be slow to occur. However,
some clustering of storms is expected with time. This would
transition the primary threat to severe gusts given the relatively
steep low-level lapse rates and modest flow aloft on the regional
RAP short-term forecast profiles.

..Supinie/Smith.. 07/23/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...UNR...CYS...BYZ...RIW...

LAT...LON   44000690 44750703 45160692 45360559 45400423 45350365
            44910310 44300254 43410268 42890290 42410336 41940451
            41840505 41900558 42280605 43080660 44000690 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...55-70 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...1.50-2.50 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1762.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1762.html>

---

## SPC Jul 23, 2025 2000 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0243 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Valid 232000Z - 241200Z

...THERE IS A SLIGHT RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS THERE IS A SLIGHT
RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF THE NORTHERN HIGH
PLAINS AND NEBRASKA INTO THE UPPER GREAT LAKES...

...SUMMARY...
Scattered severe thunderstorms capable of producing damaging winds
and potentially a tornado risk are possible across the Upper
Midwest, mainly this afternoon and evening. Large hail may occur
with supercells late today across parts of the northern High Plains.

...20z Update...
The primary forecast amendment for this update is a reduction in
severe probabilities across portions of northern MN and WI where the
primary front and convective clusters/bands have passed and
conditions are slowly stabilizing within the post-frontal regime.
Across WI, 5% tornado probabilities have been adjusted southward to
better align with recent convective trends and where short-range
guidance shows the best overlap of low-level theta-e advection and
wind shear later this evening. Although convective mode will be the
primary modulating factor in the overall tornado threat, STP values
should increase to between 1-2 later this evening as the nocturnal
jet strengthens and should support at least some tornado potential. 

Elsewhere, the forecast remains on track per the previous discussion
below. GOES IR imagery and echo top data shows an uptick in
convective intensity across southeast MN and northern WI, and early
stages of convective initiation are noted along the front
southwestward into NE. These trends suggest a severe threat remains
across the Plains/upper MS Valley regions. See MCDs #1761 and #1762
for additional details regarding the severe threat across portions
of the northern High Plains and central NE.

..Moore.. 07/23/2025

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 1123 AM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025/

...Mid Missouri Valley into the Upper Midwest/Great Lakes...
Visible satellite/radar composite shows scattered thunderstorms late
this morning from eastern SD into western WI, generally near and
east of a surface low analyzed near the SD/MN border.  A cold front
extending from northern MN southwestward into the central High
Plains will continue east-southeastward and provide a focus for
additional storm development this afternoon/evening.  Due in part to
appreciable convection this morning and its related airmass
influence across the Upper Midwest, uncertainty remains regarding
the evolution of midday thunderstorm clusters and their associated
severe risk this afternoon as the airmass immediately east/southeast
of this activity continues to destabilize.  

A plume of richer low-level moisture (surface dewpoints in the mid
70s F) extends northward from the mid MS Valley into the upper MS
Valley.  Model guidance maintains a belt of moderate southwesterly
800-650 mb flow (30-35 kt) across the MN/IA/WI vicinity with
slightly weaker flow indicated in the upper troposphere.  The
resultant hodograph structure should promote more linear
configurations of storms.  Models show the development of a more
southwest-northeast oriented convective band later this afternoon
across this region, which may subdue otherwise greater potential for
severe gusts (being not oriented orthogonal to the mean wind in
800-650 mb layer), given the development of a very unstable boundary
layer in areas void of convective overturning.  

Scattered severe/damaging winds appear to be the primary severe
hazard but a tornado or two is possible, especially across MN into
the WI vicinity.  Storms are likely to develop farther southwest
along the front in NE but weaker shear with south extent will limit
the overall convective organization.  However, severe gusts will
probably occur with the more intense cores and surges with a linear
band of storms through the evening before this activity gradually
weakens.

...Northern/Central High Plains...
No change was made to this portion of the outlook.  A
moist/post-frontal environment will favor scattered storm
development later this afternoon.  Relatively long/straight
hodographs at mid/upper levels from the Black Hills into northeast
WY will promote supercell development with the stronger updrafts. 
Large hail and severe gusts will be the primary hazards.  Farther
south, weaker flow will result in less organized storm modes, but
isolated severe gusts/hail may occur with the stronger storms
through early-mid evening.

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_2000.html>

---

## SPC Severe Thunderstorm Watch 538 Status Reports

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0538.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0538_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0538 Status Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

STATUS FOR WATCH 0538 HAS NOT BEEN ISSUED YET
</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0538.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0538.html>

---

## SPC Severe Thunderstorm Watch 538

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0538.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0538_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0538 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
Severe Thunderstorm Watch Number 538
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
135 PM MDT Wed Jul 23 2025

The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

* Severe Thunderstorm Watch for portions of 
  Western South Dakota
  Central into Northeast Wyoming

* Effective this Wednesday afternoon and evening from 135 PM
  until 800 PM MDT.

* Primary threats include...
  Scattered large hail and isolated very large hail events to 2
    inches in diameter possible
  Isolated damaging wind gusts to 70 mph possible

SUMMARY...Widely scattered to scattered thunderstorms are forecast
to develop this afternoon.  The stronger storms will likely become
supercells and pose a risk for large hail (1 to 2 inches in
diameter).  Isolated severe gusts (60-70 mph) are possible with
supercells and with storms that may congeal into a linear cluster
towards the evening.

The severe thunderstorm watch area is approximately along and 90
statute miles east and west of a line from 50 miles north northeast
of Gillette WY to 30 miles east southeast of Douglas WY. For a
complete depiction of the watch see the associated watch outline
update (WOUS64 KWNS WOU8).

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

REMEMBER...A Severe Thunderstorm Watch means conditions are
favorable for severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch area.
Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for threatening
weather conditions and listen for later statements and possible
warnings. Severe thunderstorms can and occasionally do produce
tornadoes.

&&

AVIATION...A few severe thunderstorms with hail surface and aloft to
2 inches. Extreme turbulence and surface wind gusts to 60 knots. A
few cumulonimbi with maximum tops to 450. Mean storm motion vector
27020.

...Smith

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0538.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0538.html>

---

## SPC Jul 23, 2025 1930 UTC Day 3 Severe Thunderstorm Outlook

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 3 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 3 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0229 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Valid 251200Z - 261200Z

...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE NORTHEAST INTO THE MID-ATLANTIC AND UPPER OHIO VALLEY...AND OVER
THE NORTHERN PLAINS...

...SUMMARY...
Scattered strong thunderstorms will pose a risk of damaging winds
across the Northeast, northern Mid-Atlantic, and Upper Ohio Valley
on Friday. The development of an organized cluster of storms with
potential to produce severe wind gusts is also possible across parts
of the northern Great Plains.

...Northeast into the Mid-Atlantic and Upper OH Valley...
A broad midlevel trough will move gradually eastward across Quebec
during the day, while a related cold front advances southward across
the Northeast and northern Mid-Atlantic. Broad large-scale ascent
accompanying the midlevel trough and diurnal heating amid rich
boundary-layer moisture will promote widely scattered thunderstorms
along the front during the afternoon. Around 40 kt of deep-layer
shear and a moderately unstable air mass will favor bands of
organized storms (including the potential for supercell structures)
-- with a risk of damaging wind gusts. 

...Northern Great Plains...
Within a belt of broad westerly flow aloft, an embedded midlevel
impulse should track eastward across the northern Plains during the
day. In response, diurnally driven high-based thunderstorms will
pose a risk for locally severe gusts and large hail over the
northern High Plains -- given steepening deep-layer lapse rates and
around 30-40 kt of deep-layer shear. With time, upscale growth into
an organized cluster is possible as storms impinge on richer
boundary-layer moisture and a broad southerly low-level jet over the
Dakotas.

...Central Plains into the Mid MS Valley...
Guidance indicates the potential for a convectively augmented
midlevel perturbation to develop east-northeastward across the
central Plains, with related clusters of preceding convection.
Associated cloud debris and poor midlevel lapse rates limit
confidence in the severe risk at this time, though probabilities may
eventually be needed as forecast confidence increases.

..Weinman.. 07/23/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day3otlk_1930.html>

---

## SPC Jul 23, 2025 1730 UTC Day 2 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 2 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 2 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1232 PM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Valid 241200Z - 251200Z

...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS FROM THE GREAT
LAKES TO THE SOUTHERN PLAINS...AND OVER THE NORTHERN/CENTRAL HIGH
PLAINS...

...SUMMARY...
Locally damaging thunderstorm wind gusts will be possible from the
Great Lakes to the southern Plains on Thursday afternoon. Isolated
severe storms will also pose a risk of large hail and severe wind
gusts over the northern and central High Plains.

...Synopsis...
Along the northern periphery of an expansive large-scale ridge
centered over the Southeast, a low-amplitude midlevel impulse
accompanied by moderate-strong west-southwesterly flow will
overspread the Great Lakes region during the day. In the low-levels,
a slow-moving cold front will extend from the Great Lakes
southwestward to a weak surface low over the southern Plains.
Farther west, surface high pressure will remain in place over the
Upper MS Valley.

...Great Lakes...
Diurnal heating/destabilization amid rich boundary-layer moisture
(lower 70s dewpoints) will contribute to moderate surface-based
buoyancy ahead of the cold front -- despite poor midlevel lapse
rates. The enhanced west-southwesterly flow aloft accompanying the
midlevel impulse will yield around 30 kt of effective shear, which
may promote a couple loosely organized storm clusters across the
Great Lakes region during the afternoon. The stronger storm clusters
will be capable of producing wind damage, given enhanced
low/mid-level flow and steepening low-level lapse rates. 

...Lower Missouri Valley to the Southern Plains...
Deep-layer shear will be weaker with southward extent; however,
diurnal heating amid deep tropospheric moisture will contribute to
an environment favorable for strong-severe thunderstorm downbursts
through the afternoon. This activity will be focused along/ahead of
the cold front and near the weak surface low over the southern
Plains.

...Northern and central High Plains...
Recycled boundary-layer moisture beneath modest midlevel lapse rates
will be in place along the northern/central High Plains. Around 40
kt of deep-layer shear (stronger with northward extent) and moderate
buoyancy will support a couple organized storms capable of producing
large hail and locally severe wind gusts.

..Weinman.. 07/23/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day2otlk_1730.html>

---

## SPC Jul 23, 2025 1630 UTC Day 1 Convective Outlook

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Convective Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1123 AM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Valid 231630Z - 241200Z

...THERE IS A SLIGHT RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PARTS OF
THE NORTHERN HIGH PLAINS...AND NEBRASKA INTO THE UPPER GREAT
LAKES...

...SUMMARY...
Scattered severe thunderstorms capable of producing damaging winds
and potentially a tornado risk are possible across the Upper
Midwest, mainly this afternoon and evening. Large hail may occur
with supercells late today across parts of the northern High Plains.

...Mid Missouri Valley into the Upper Midwest/Great Lakes...
Visible satellite/radar composite shows scattered thunderstorms late
this morning from eastern SD into western WI, generally near and
east of a surface low analyzed near the SD/MN border.  A cold front
extending from northern MN southwestward into the central High
Plains will continue east-southeastward and provide a focus for
additional storm development this afternoon/evening.  Due in part to
appreciable convection this morning and its related airmass
influence across the Upper Midwest, uncertainty remains regarding
the evolution of midday thunderstorm clusters and their associated
severe risk this afternoon as the airmass immediately east/southeast
of this activity continues to destabilize.  

A plume of richer low-level moisture (surface dewpoints in the mid
70s F) extends northward from the mid MS Valley into the upper MS
Valley.  Model guidance maintains a belt of moderate southwesterly
800-650 mb flow (30-35 kt) across the MN/IA/WI vicinity with
slightly weaker flow indicated in the upper troposphere.  The
resultant hodograph structure should promote more linear
configurations of storms.  Models show the development of a more
southwest-northeast oriented convective band later this afternoon
across this region, which may subdue otherwise greater potential for
severe gusts (being not oriented orthogonal to the mean wind in
800-650 mb layer), given the development of a very unstable boundary
layer in areas void of convective overturning.  

Scattered severe/damaging winds appear to be the primary severe
hazard but a tornado or two is possible, especially across MN into
the WI vicinity.  Storms are likely to develop farther southwest
along the front in NE but weaker shear with south extent will limit
the overall convective organization.  However, severe gusts will
probably occur with the more intense cores and surges with a linear
band of storms through the evening before this activity gradually
weakens.

...Northern/Central High Plains...
No change was made to this portion of the outlook.  A
moist/post-frontal environment will favor scattered storm
development later this afternoon.  Relatively long/straight
hodographs at mid/upper levels from the Black Hills into northeast
WY will promote supercell development with the stronger updrafts. 
Large hail and severe gusts will be the primary hazards.  Farther
south, weaker flow will result in less organized storm modes, but
isolated severe gusts/hail may occur with the stronger storms
through early-mid evening.

..Smith/Supinie.. 07/23/2025

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/outlook/day1otlk_1630.html>

---

## SPC MD 1759

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1759.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1759.png" border="1" alt="MD 1759 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1759
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0728 AM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

Areas affected...eastern SD and western MN

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 231228Z - 231400Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...40 percent

SUMMARY...Sporadic severe gusts may persist this morning with
multiple messy clusters across eastern South Dakota. Watch issuance
in the near-term is uncertain with increasing likelihood towards
midday.

DISCUSSION...A small but persistent cluster that has produced a
focused swath of measured severe gusts across southwest into central
SD has weakened in terms of reflectivity structure and IR cloud top
warming. The downstream front has oscillated southward, suggesting
that this cluster will persist to the cool side of this front and
likely impinge on weak downstream convection towards the SD/ND/MN
border area. Meanwhile, a west/east-oriented convective band
emanating northward across southern SD has produced a couple
measured severe gusts at mesonet sites. This convection will
probably evolve more northeastward into late morning and could also
congeal with the post-frontal convection to the north. Overall messy
and complex convective mode, along with the time of day, suggests
that severe potential may remain sporadic and disorganized. More
positive cold pool merging could occur into western MN towards
midday as greater downstream insolation occurs across
central/southern MN.

..Grams/Gleason.. 07/23/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...MPX...FGF...FSD...ABR...

LAT...LON   43639928 44209973 44859968 45269915 45629796 45919683
            46049591 45949557 45479549 44839576 43649762 43639928 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...55-70 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...UP TO 1.25 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1759.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1759.html>

---

## SPC Severe Thunderstorm Watch 537 Status Reports

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0537.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0537_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0537 Status Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

STATUS FOR WATCH 0537 HAS NOT BEEN ISSUED YET
</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0537.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0537.html>

---

## SPC Severe Thunderstorm Watch 537

date: 2025-07-23, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0537.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0537_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0537 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
Severe Thunderstorm Watch Number 537
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
755 AM CDT Wed Jul 23 2025

The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

* Severe Thunderstorm Watch for portions of 
  Far Western Minnesota
  Eastern South Dakota

* Effective this Wednesday morning and afternoon from 755 AM
  until 100 PM CDT.

* Primary threats include...
  Scattered damaging winds and isolated significant gusts to 75
    mph possible

SUMMARY...Multiple bowing clusters should continue to pose a threat
for mainly scattered severe/damaging winds as they spread generally
eastward through the rest of the morning into the early afternoon.

The severe thunderstorm watch area is approximately along and 50
statute miles north and south of a line from 70 miles west southwest
of Aberdeen SD to 50 miles northeast of Watertown SD. For a complete
depiction of the watch see the associated watch outline update
(WOUS64 KWNS WOU7).

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

REMEMBER...A Severe Thunderstorm Watch means conditions are
favorable for severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch area.
Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for threatening
weather conditions and listen for later statements and possible
warnings. Severe thunderstorms can and occasionally do produce
tornadoes.

&&

AVIATION...A few severe thunderstorms with hail surface and aloft to
1 inch. Extreme turbulence and surface wind gusts to 65 knots. A few
cumulonimbi with maximum tops to 550. Mean storm motion vector
27035.

...Gleason

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0537.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0537.html>

---

## SPC MD 1756

date: 2025-07-22, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1756.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1756.png" border="1" alt="MD 1756 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1756
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0319 PM CDT Tue Jul 22 2025

Areas affected...portions of southeast North Dakota and northeast
South Dakota

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 222019Z - 222215Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...40 percent

SUMMARY...Strong to severe thunderstorms are possible into early
evening. Hail and strong gusts may occur with stronger storms.

DISCUSSION...Scattered thunderstorms have developed this afternoon
within the post-outflow airmass. While early day convection and
cloud cover have impacted the airmass to some degree, some recovery
is apparent as temperatures have warmed into the upper 70s to low
80s and dewpoints have been maintained in the upper 60s to low 70s.
As a result, capping is eroding, and MLCAPE has increased to
1000-2000 J/kg. Ongoing storms may be somewhat elevated initially,
but could become surface-based with time. Effective shear magnitudes
greater than 40 kt and steep midlevel lapse rates suggests robust
updrafts supporting isolated large hail and strong/severe gusts will
be possible. Given the influence of outflow and modification of the
airmass from morning convection, convective evolution remains
somewhat uncertain. Portions of the area may eventually need a
severe thunderstorm watch, but timing and location is uncertain.

..Leitman/Smith.. 07/22/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...FGF...FSD...ABR...BIS...

LAT...LON   45470046 46749959 47279828 46969709 46309676 45059717
            44629788 44339914 44260010 44470063 44770080 45470046 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...UP TO 95 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...55-70 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...1.00-1.75 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1756.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1756.html>

---

## SPC MD 1755

date: 2025-07-22, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1755.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1755.png" border="1" alt="MD 1755 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1755
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0300 PM CDT Tue Jul 22 2025

Areas affected...northern WY into southeast MT

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 222000Z - 222200Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...40 percent

SUMMARY...Isolated strong to severe thunderstorms are possible
across parts of southern Montana and northern Wyoming this afternoon
and evening.

DISCUSSION...Occasionally robust thunderstorms have developed over
higher terrain in portions of southern MT and northern WY. Weak
inhibition remains downstream over the adjacent high Plains, but
additional heating and increasing ascent should allow for storms to
become sustained further from the terrain with time into late
afternoon. Regional VWP data shows elongated, straight hodographs
amid steep midlevel lapse rates. While instability is muted due to
the drier, post-frontal low-level airmass, MLCAPE will still be
sufficient to sustain updrafts. Isolated strong to severe
thunderstorms posing a risk for hail (possibly up to 2 inches,
especially over far southeast MT) will be possible over the next
several hours. Trends will be monitored and a severe thunderstorm
watch may be needed for parts of the discussion area later this
afternoon.

..Leitman/Smith.. 07/22/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...UNR...BYZ...GGW...RIW...TFX...

LAT...LON   45781046 46181020 46620976 46870927 46890803 46750614
            46530494 46260428 46040411 45650405 44750412 44330490
            44020652 43980783 43990872 44310889 44910939 45321021
            45781046 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...UP TO 95 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...65-80 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...1.50-2.50 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1755.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1755.html>

---

## SPC Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook

date: 2025-07-22, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/day1fireotlk.gif" border="1" alt="Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="555" align="center" /></a><pre>
Day 1 Fire Weather Outlook  
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
1132 AM CDT Tue Jul 22 2025

Valid 221700Z - 231200Z

...Update...
Increasing west-southwesterly winds are expected near and west of
the upper Snake River of ID this afternoon and evening. Although
relative humidity will likely remain just above critical thresholds
of 15 percent, sustained wind speeds at or above 20 mph should
persist for a few hours across receptive fuels. Therefore, an
additional small Elevated area has been included in the forecast for
today for the aforementioned region. The rest of the forecast
remains valid and accurate for NV. Please see the previous
discussion for details pertaining to that region.

..Barnes.. 07/22/2025

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 0128 AM CDT Tue Jul 22 2025/

...Synopsis...
While mid-level winds will steadily weaken across the Great Basin
today, enough flow across the Sierra and strong heating in Nevada
will promote a weak surface trough in northern Nevada. This feature
will drive downslope winds into parts of southern and central
Nevada. Winds around 15 to perhaps 20 mph will occur in a confined
zone. RH will fall to 10-15% by the afternoon. Local, marginally
critical conditions may occur very briefly as well. A few hours of
elevated fire weather is expected.

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov/fire for graphic product...

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/fire_wx/fwdy1.html>

---

## SPC MD 1738

date: 2025-07-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1738.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1738.png" border="1" alt="MD 1738 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1738
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0241 PM CDT Sun Jul 20 2025

Areas affected...south-central South Dakota across western Nebraska
and toward northwest Kansas

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 201941Z - 202215Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...60 percent

SUMMARY...Scattered severe storms appear likely later this afternoon
from south-central SD across west-central NE and toward northwest
KS. A few cells may produce large hail, with locally damaging gusts.
A tornado is possible over southern SD into far northern NE after
23Z. A portion of the area may require a watch.

DISCUSSION...Surface map shows low pressure extending from southwest
SD across western NE and into the CO/KS border area, with strong
heating. This trough will continue to deepen, and sufficient
convergence within the uncapped air mass should allow for widely
scattered storms to develop late this afternoon.

Of particular note is the warm front area which currently curls
northwestward out of northern NE and into south-central SD. Here,
heating is occurring on the cool side of the boundary, where
dewpoints remain above 70 F and low-level shear is enhanced. Any
supercell that develops here, most likely after 23Z, could be
tornadic at times, and produce very large hail as it proceeds
southeastward, aided by a modest evening low-level jet.

Farther south into the deeper/heated air mass, higher based storms
are expected, and overall shear is weaker as well. However, steep
lapse rates will favor locally severe gusts, and even some hail in
the early and robust formation stages.

..Jewell/Smith.. 07/20/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...ABR...LBF...UNR...GLD...BOU...

LAT...LON   42940011 41680031 40480068 39280162 39210233 40430230
            41640217 42900209 43440215 43740228 44020246 44250227
            44360152 44250113 43880051 42940011 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...85-115 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...65-80 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK HAIL SIZE...1.50-2.50 IN

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1738.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1738.html>

---

## SPC MD 1737

date: 2025-07-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1737.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1737.png" border="1" alt="MD 1737 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1737
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0135 PM CDT Sun Jul 20 2025

Areas affected...southern Indiana and Ohio...northern Kentucky

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch unlikely 

Valid 201835Z - 202130Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...20 percent

SUMMARY...A few strong storms producing locally damaging gusts
cannot be ruled out later this afternoon from southern Indiana
across southern Ohio and northeast Kentucky.

DISCUSSION...An MCV continues to move rapidly eastward across
northern IN, well north of a stalled front draped across southern
IL/IN and southwest OH. Meanwhile, a very moist air mass remains
near this boundary, with heating occurring upstream across the Mid
MS and OH Valleys.

While the entire warm sector is unstable, areas near the front exist
beneath slightly stronger deep-layer mean winds, on the southern
periphery of the larger scale trough (and MCV) influence.

Visible imagery show increasing CU fields from southern IN into
northern and eastern KY, and scattered storms are likely within this
zone. Locally strong downbursts will be possible, but any more
substantial wind threat would be conditional on a large cluster of
storms producing outflow, and tracking east/southeast near the
boundary. At this time, it appears a watch will not be necessary.

..Jewell/Smith.. 07/20/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...RLX...JKL...ILN...LMK...IND...

LAT...LON   39608450 39658393 39708357 39688308 39568274 39208236
            38848232 38338246 38068281 37818335 37928396 38148477
            38418645 38568698 38918712 39298693 39478664 39558561
            39608450 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...55-70 MPH

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1737.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1737.html>

---

## SPC Severe Thunderstorm Watch 530 Status Reports

date: 2025-07-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0530.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0530_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0530 Status Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

STATUS FOR WATCH 0530 HAS NOT BEEN ISSUED YET
</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0530.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ws0530.html>

---

## SPC Severe Thunderstorm Watch 530

date: 2025-07-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0530.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0530_radar.gif" border="1" alt="WW 0530 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="525" height="459" align="center" /></a><pre>

URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
Severe Thunderstorm Watch Number 530
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
410 PM EDT Sun Jul 20 2025

The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

* Severe Thunderstorm Watch for portions of 
  Connecticut
  Massachusetts
  Far Southern Maine
  Southern New Hampshire
  Rhode Island
  Southern Vermont
  Coastal Waters

* Effective this Sunday afternoon and evening from 410 PM until
  900 PM EDT.

* Primary threats include...
  Scattered damaging wind gusts to 65 mph possible
  Isolated large hail events to 1 inch in diameter possible

SUMMARY...Scattered thunderstorms are forecast to continue to
develop and intensify and pose primarily a threat for strong to
severe gusts (55-65 mph).  Isolated large hail may accompany the
stronger cells.  This activity will likely reach the coast by the
mid evening.

The severe thunderstorm watch area is approximately along and 80
statute miles north and south of a line from 30 miles east northeast
of Boston MA to 25 miles south southwest of Pittsfield MA. For a
complete depiction of the watch see the associated watch outline
update (WOUS64 KWNS WOU0).

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

REMEMBER...A Severe Thunderstorm Watch means conditions are
favorable for severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch area.
Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for threatening
weather conditions and listen for later statements and possible
warnings. Severe thunderstorms can and occasionally do produce
tornadoes.

&&

AVIATION...A few severe thunderstorms with hail surface and aloft to
1 inch. Extreme turbulence and surface wind gusts to 55 knots. A few
cumulonimbi with maximum tops to 400. Mean storm motion vector
28025.

...Smith

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0530.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/watch/ww0530.html>

---

## SPC MD 1735

date: 2025-07-20, from: NOAA tornado/severe thunderstorm watches, mesoscale discussions, convective outlooks, fire weather outlooks

<br /><a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1735.html"><img src="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/mcd1735.png" border="1" alt="MD 1735 Image" hspace="1" vspace="1" width="815" height="611" align="center" /></a><pre>

Mesoscale Discussion 1735
NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
0735 AM CDT Sun Jul 20 2025

Areas affected...Portions of far east-central IL into central IN

Concerning...Severe potential...Watch possible 

Valid 201235Z - 201430Z

Probability of Watch Issuance...40 percent

SUMMARY...A small complex of thunderstorms may pose a gradually
increasing threat for damaging winds over the next few hours. Watch
issuance is possible later this morning if this activity can
intensify.

DISCUSSION...Thunderstorms are ongoing this morning across parts of
central IL, aided by modest west-southwesterly low-level warm
advection and a low-amplitude mid-level perturbation. This
convection should continue to track generally east-southeastward
this morning across parts of central IN along an instability
gradient evident in latest mesoanalysis. While low/mid-level flow is
not overly strong, recent VWPs from KILX/KIND do show some
strengthening with height through mid levels. Resultant 25-30 kt of
effective bulk shear should continue to support some updraft
organization, with a recent supercell structure noted with a
thunderstorm near the IL/IN border. If a small bowing cluster can
become established as some recent high-resolution guidance suggests,
then a greater threat for scattered severe/damaging winds may be
realized across parts of central IN later this morning as the
boundary layer gradually destabilizes with filtered daytime heating.
While not immediately likely, Severe Thunderstorm Watch issuance may
eventually be needed if the ongoing activity can intensify.

..Gleason.. 07/20/2025

...Please see www.spc.noaa.gov for graphic product...

ATTN...WFO...IWX...IND...LOT...ILX...

LAT...LON   40298835 40788789 40538657 40198532 39768532 39428551
            39398622 39488703 39878799 40298835 

MOST PROBABLE PEAK TORNADO INTENSITY...UP TO 95 MPH
MOST PROBABLE PEAK WIND GUST...55-70 MPH

</pre>
<a href="https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1735.html">Read more</a>
 

<br> 

<https://www.spc.noaa.gov/products/md/md1735.html>

